We’ve been up to the top. No sign of that boat yet.
It’s very early still.
Oh, I know.
Still the fellow brings the milk and the bread and all that.
I should have thought he’d have got here before this.
No sign of breakfast yet. Where’s that fellow Rogers?
Oh, don’t let’s bother about breakfast.
How’s the weather looking?
The wind has freshened a bit. Rather a mackerel sky.
Old boy in the train yesterday said we were due for dirty weather.
Shouldn’t wonder if he wasn’t right –
I wish that boat would come.
The sooner we get off this island the better.
It’s absurd not keeping a boat on the island.
No proper harbor. If the wind comes to blow from the southeast,
a boat would get dashed to pieces against the rocks.
But a boat would always be able to make us from the mainland?
No, Miss Brent – that’s just what it wouldn’t.
Do you mean we should be cut off from the land?
Yes. Condensed milk, ryvita and tinned stuff
till the gale had blown itself out.
But you needn’t worry. The sea’s only a bit choppy.
I think the pleasures of living on an island are rather overrated.
I wonder if that boat’s coming.
Annoying the way the house is built slap up against the cliff.
You can’t see the mainland until you’ve climbed to the top.
Shall we go up there again?
It’s no good. Doctor. A watched pot never boils.
There wasn’t a sign of a boat putting out when we were up there just now.
What can this man Narracott be doing?
They’re all like that in Devon. Never hurry themselves.
And where’s Rogers? He ought to be about.
If you ask me, Master Rogers was pretty badly rattled last night.
I know.  Ghastly – the whole thing.
Got the wind up properly.
I’d take an even bet that he and his wife did do that old lady in.
You really think so?
Well, I never saw a man more scared.
Guilty as hell, I should say.
Fantastic – the whole thing – fantastic.
I say, suppose he’s hopped it?
Who, Rogers? But there isn’t any way he could.
There’s no boat on the island. You’ve just said so.
Yes, but I’ve been thinking. We’ve only Rogers’ word for that.
Suppose there is one and he’s nipped off in it the first thing.
Oh! No. He wouldn’t be allowed to leave the island.
Sleep well, General?
I dreamed – yes, I dreamed –
I don’t wonder at that.
I dreamed of Lesley – my wife, you know.
Oh – er – yes – I wish Narracott would come.
Who is Narracott?
The bloke who brought us over yesterday afternoon.
Was it only yesterday?
Yes, I feel like that, too.
Batty gramophone records – suicides –
it’s about all a man can stand.
I shan’t be sorry to see the back of Soldier Island, I give you my word.
So you don’t understand. How strange!
What’s that, General?
I don’t like the look of him.
I reckon young Marston’s suicide must have been a pretty bad shock to him.
He looks years older.
Where is that poor young fellow now?
In the study – put him there myself.
Doctor Armstrong, I suppose it was suicide?
What else could it be?
I don’t know. But suicide –
You know, I had a pretty funny feeling in the night.
This Mr. Unknown Owen, suppose he’s on the island.
Rogers mayn’t know.
Or he may have told him to say so.
Pretty nasty thought, isn’t it?
But would it have been possible for anyone to tamper
with Marston’s drink without our seeing him?
Well, it was standing up there
Anyone could have slipped a dollop of cyanide in it if they’d wanted to.
But that –
Oh, there you are, sir. I’ve been all over the place looking for you.
Could you come up and have a look at my wife, sir?
Yes, of course.  Is she feeling under the weather still?
She’s – she’s –
You won’t leave the island without me?
I wish the boat would come. I hate this place.
Yes. I think the sooner we can get in touch with the police the better.
The police?
The police have to be notified in a case of suicide,
you know, Miss Claythorne.
Oh, yes – of course.
What’s going on here? No sign of any breakfast.
Are you hungry, General? Feeling like breakfast?
Lesley – Lesley – my dear.
No – I’m not – I’m Vera Claythorne.
Of course. Forgive me. I took you for my wife.
Oh!
I was waiting for her, you see.
But I thought your wife was dead – long ago.
Yes. I thought so, too. But I was wrong.
She’s here. On this island.
Good morning.
Good morning, Captain Lombard.
Good morning. Seem to have overslept myself. Boat here yet?
No.
Bit late, isn’t it?
Yes.
Good morning. You and I could have had a swim before breakfast.
Too bad all this.
Too bad you overslept yourself.
You must have good nerves to sleep like that.
Nothing makes me lose my sleep.
Didn’t dream of African natives, by any chance, did you?
No. Did you dream of convicts on Dartmoor?
Look here, I don’t think that’s funny, Captain Lombard.
Well, you started it, you know. I’m hungry. What about breakfast?
The whole domestic staff seems to have gone on strike.
Oh, well, we can always forage for ourselves.
Hullo, that’s strange.
What is?
You remember we found one of these little fellows
smashed last night?
Yes – that ought to leave nine.
That ought to leave nine.
I’m certain there were ten of them here when we arrived.
Well?
There are only eight.
So there are.
I think its queer, don’t you?
Probably only were nine to begin with.
We assumed there were ten because of the rhyme.
Hullo, Armstrong, what’s the matter?
Mrs. Rogers is dead.
No? How?
Died in her sleep.
Rogers thought she was still under the influence of the sleeping draught
I gave her and came down without disturbing her.
He lit the kitchen fire and did this room.
Then, as she hadn’t appeared, he went up, was alarmed by the
look of her and went hunting for me.
She’s been dead about five hours, I should say.
What was it? Heart?
Impossible to say. It may have been.
After all, she had a pretty bad shock last night.
Yes.
She might have been poisoned, I suppose, Doctor?
It is perfectly possible.
With the same stuff as young Marston?
No, not cyanide.
It would have to have been some narcotic or hypnotic.
One of the barbiturates, or chloral. Something like that.
You gave her some sleeping powders last night, didn’t you?
Yes, I gave her a mild dose of Luminal.
Didn’t give her too much, did you?
Certainly not. What do you mean?
All right – no offense, no offense.
I just thought that perhaps if she’d had a weak heart –
The amount I gave her could not have hurt anyone.
Then what exactly did happen?
Impossible to say without an autopsy.
If, for instance, this death had occurred
in the case of one of your private patients,
what would have been your procedure?
Without any previous knowledge of the woman’s state of health,
I could certainly not give a certificate.
She was a very nervous-looking creature.
She had a bad fright last night. Perhaps it was heart failure.
Her heart certainly failed to beat – but what caused it to fail?
Conscience.
What exactly do you mean by that, Miss Brent?
You all heard – she was accused, together with her husband, of having
deliberately murdered her former employer – an old lady.
And you believe that’s true, Miss Brent?
Certainly. You all saw her last night.
She broke down completely and fainted.
The shock of having her wickedness brought home to her
was too much for her. She literally died of fear.
It is a possible theory.
One cannot adopt it without more exact knowledge of her state of health.
If there was a latent cardiac weakness –
Call it, if you prefer, An Act of God.
Oh, no, Miss Brent.
You regard it as impossible that a sinner should be struck down
by the wrath of God? I do not.
My dear lady, in my experience of ill doing,
Providence leaves the work of conviction and chastisement to us mortals
and the process is often fraught with difficulties.
There are no short cuts.
Let’s be practical.
What did the woman have to eat and drink last night
after she went to bed?
Nothing.
Nothing at all? Not a cup of tea? Or a glass of water?
I’ll bet you she had a cup of tea.
That sort always does.
Rogers assures me she had nothing whatever.
He might say so.
So that’s your idea?
Well, why not? You heard that accusation last night.
What if it’s true? Miss Brent thinks it is, for one.
Rogers and his missus did the old lady in.
They’re feeling quite safe and happy about it –
Happy?
Well – they know there’s no immediate danger to them.
Then, last night some lunatic goes and spills the beans.
What happens? It’s the woman cracks. Goes to pieces.
Did you see him hanging round her when she was coming to?
Not all husbandly solicitude? Not on your sweet life.
He was like a cat on hot bricks. And that’s the position.
They’ve done a murder and got away with it.
But if it’s all going to be raked up again now,
it’s the woman will give the show away.
She hadn’t got the nerve to brazen it out.
She’s a living danger to her husband, that’s what she is,
and him – he’s all right. He’ll go on lying till the cows come home,
but he can’t be sure of her. So what does he do?
He drops a nice little dollop of something into a nice cup of tea,
and when she’s had it, he washes up the cup and saucer
and tells the doctor she ain’t had nothing.
Oh, no. That’s impossible. A man wouldn’t do that –
not to his wife.
You’d be surprised, Miss Claythorne,
what some husbands would do.
Excuse me, Miss, I’m getting on with breakfast.
I’m not much of a hand as a cook, I’m afraid.
It’s lunch that’s worrying me.
Would cold tongue and gelatin be satisfactory?
And I could manage some fried potatoes.
And then there’s tinned fruit and cheese and biscuits.
That will be fine, Rogers.
Lunch? Lunch? We shan’t be here for lunch!
And when the hell’s that boat corning?
Mr. Blore!
What?
You’ll pardon me, sir, but the boat won’t be coming.
What?
Fred Narracott’s always here before eight.
Is there anything else you require, Miss?
No, thank you, Rogers.
And it’s not Rogers! His wife lying dead upstairs
and there he’s cooking breakfast and calmly talking about lunch!
Now he says the boat won’t be corning.
How the ‘ell does he know?
Mr. Blore!
What?
 Oh, don’t you see? He’s dazed.
He’s just carrying on automatically as a good servant would.
It’s – it’s pathetic, really.
He’s pulling a fast one, if you ask me.
The really significant thing is the failure of the boat to arrive.
It means that we are being deliberately cut off from help.
That’s very little time – very little time –
What’s that, General?
Very little time.
We mustn’t waste it talking about things that don’t matter.
Why do you think Narracott hasn’t turned up?
I think the ubiquitous Mr. Owen has given orders.
You mean, told him it’s a practical joke
or something of that kind?
He’d never fall for that, would he?
Why not?
Soldier Island’s got a reputation for people having crazy parties.
This is just one more crazy idea, that’s all.
Narracott knows there’s plenty of food and drink in the island.
Probably thinks it’s all a huge joke.
Couldn’t we light a bonfire up on the top of the island?
So that they’d see it?
That’s probably been provided against.
All signals are to be ignored. We’re cut off all right.
But can’t we do something?
Oh, yes, we can do something. We can find the funny gentleman
who’s staged this little joke, Mr. Unknown Owen.
I’ll bet anything you like he’s somewhere on the island,
and the sooner we get hold of him the better.
Because, in my opinion, he’s mad as a hatter.
And as dangerous as a rattlesnake.
Hardly a very good simile, Captain Lombard.
The rattlesnake at least gives warning of its approach.
Warning? My God, yes!  That’s our warning.
“Ten little soldier boys – ”
There were ten of us after Narracott went, weren’t there?
“Ten little soldier boys going out to dine;
One went and choked himself – ”
Marston choked himself, didn’t he?
And then –
“Nine little soldier boys sat up very late.
One overslept himself – ”
Overslept himself – the last part fits Mrs. Rogers
rather well, doesn’t it?
You don’t think – ? Do you mean that he wants to kill us all?
Yes, I think he does.
And each one fits with the rhyme!
No, no, it’s impossible. It’s coincidence. It must be coincidence.
Only eight little soldier boys here.
I suppose that’s coincidence too. What do you think, Blore?
I don’t like it.
But there’s nobody on the island.
I’m not so sure of that.
This is terrible.
None of us will ever leave this island.
Can’t somebody shut up Grandpa?
Don’t you agree with me, Sir Lawrence?
Up to a point – yes.
Then the sooner we get to work the better.
Come on, Armstrong. Come on, Blore.
We’ll make short work of it.
I’m ready. Nobody’s got a revolver, by any chance?
I suppose that’s too much to hope for.
I’ve got one.
Always carry that about with you?
Usually. I’ve been in some tight places, you know.
Oh. Well, you’ve probably never been in a tighter place
than you are today. If there’s a homicidal maniac
hiding on this island, he’s probably got a whole arsenal
on him – and he’ll use it.
You may be wrong there, Blore.
Many homicidal maniacs are very quiet, unassuming people.
Delightful fellows!
You’d never guess there was anything wrong with them.
If Mr. Owen turns out to be one of that kind,
we’ll leave him to you, Doctor.
Now, then, let’s make a start.
I suggest Captain Lombard searches the house
while we do the island.
Right. House ought to be easy.
No sliding panels or secret doors.
Mind he doesn’t get you before you get him!
Don’t worry. But you two had better stick together – remember –
 “One got left behind.”
Come on, Armstrong.
//
A very energetic young man, Captain Lombard.
Don’t you think he’s right?
If someone is hiding on the island, they’ll
be bound to find him. It’s practically bare rock.
I think this problem needs brains to solve it.
Rather than brawn.
Where are you going?
I’m going to sit in the sun – and think, my dear young lady.
Where did I put that skein of wool?
Did you leave it upstairs? Shall I go and see if I can find it?
No, I’ll go. I know where it’s likely to be.
I’m glad Captain Lombard has got a revolver.
They’re all wasting time – wasting time.
Do you think so?
Yes, it’s much better to sit quietly – and wait.
Wait for what?
For the end, of course.  I wish I could find Lesley.
Your wife?
Yes. I wish you’d known her. She was so pretty. So gay –
Was she?
I loved her very much.
Of course, I was a lot older than she was.
She was only twenty-seven, you know.
Arthur Richmond was twenty-six. He was my A.D.
Lesley liked him. They used to talk of music and plays together,
and she teased him and made fun of him. I was pleased.
I thought she took a motherly interest in the boy.
Damn fool, wasn’t I? No fool like an old fool.
Exactly like a book the way I found out.
When I was out in France. She wrote to both of us,
and she put the letters in the wrong envelope. So I knew –
Oh, no.
It’s all right, my dear. It’s a long time ago.
But you see I loved her very much – and believed in her.
I didn’t say anything to him – I let it gather inside –
here –  a slow, murderous rage – damned young hypocrite –
I’d liked the boy – trusted him.
I wonder what the others are doing?
I sent him to his death.
Oh –
It was quite easy. Mistakes were being made all the time.
All anyone could say was that I’d lost my nerve a bit,
made a blunder, sacrificed one of my best men.
Yes, it was quite easy. Lesley never knew.
I never told her I’d found out.
We went on as usual –
but somehow nothing was quite real any more.
She died of pneumonia.
She had a heart-shaped face-and grey eyes –
and brown hair that curled.
Oh, don’t.
Yes, I suppose in a way – it was murder.
Curious, murder – and I’ve always been such a law-abiding man.
It didn’t feel like that at the time.
“Serves him damn well right!” that’s what I thought.
But after –  Well, you know, don’tyou?
What do you mean?
You don’t seem to understand – I thought you would.
I thought you’d be glad, too, that the end was coming –
I –
We’re all going to die, you know.
I – I don’t know.
You’re very young – you haven’t got to that yet. The relief!
The blessed relief when you know that you’ve done with it all,
that you haven’t got to carry the burden any longer.
General –
Don’t talk to me that way. You don’t understand.
I want to sit here and wait – wait for Lesley to come for me.
I’m frightened – oh! I’m frightened –
All correct. No secret passage – one corpse.
Don’t!
I say, you do look low.
How about a drink to steady your nerves?
A drink! Two corpses in the house at nine o’clock in the morning
and all you say, “Have a drink!”.
An old man going quite crackers
“Have a drink!”
Ten people accused of murder
that’s all right –
just have a drink.
Everything’s fine so long as you have a drink.
All right. All right – stay thirsty.
Oh, you – you’re nothing but a waster...
an adventurer – you make me tired.
I say, you are bet up. What’s the matter, my sweet?
I’m not your sweet.
I’m sorry. I rather thought you were.
Well, you can think again.
Come now – you know you don’t really feel like that.
We’ve got something in common, you and me.
Rogues and murderers can’t fall out.
Rogues and murderers – !
Okay. You don’t like the company of rogues and murderers
and you won’t have a drink. I’ll go and finish searching –
Unpleasant young man! I can’t find it anywhere.
Is anything the matter?
I’m worried about the General. He really is ill, I think.
Looking out for the boat, General?
His sin has found him out.
Oh, don’t.
One must face facts.
Can any of us afford to throw stones?
Even if his wife was no better than she should be –
and she must have been a depraved woman
he had no right to take judgment into his own hands.
What about – Beatrice Taylor?
Who?
That was the name, wasn’t it?
You are referring to that absurd accusation about myself?
Yes.
Now that we are alone, I have no objection
to telling you the facts of the case
Indeed I should like you to hear them.
It was not a fit subject to discuss before gentlemen
so naturally I refused to say anything last night.
That girl, Beatrice Taylor, was in my service.
I was very much deceived in her. She had nice manners
and was clean and willing. I was very pleased with her.
Of course, all that was sheerest hypocrisy.
She was a loose girl with no morals. Disgusting!
It was some time before I found out that she was what they call
“in trouble.”  It was a great shock to me.
Her parents were decent folks too, who had brought her up strictly.
I’m glad to say they didn’t condone her behavior.
What happened?
Naturally, I refused to keep her another hour under my roof.
No one shall ever say I condoned immorality.
Did she drown herself?
Yes.
How old was she?
Seventeen.
Only seventeen.
Quite old enough to know how to behave.
I told her what a low depraved thing she was.
I told her that she was beyond the pale and that
no decent person would take her into their house.
I told her that her child would be the child of sin
and would be branded all its life
– and that the man would naturally not dream of marrying her.
I told her that I felt soiled
by ever having her under my roof –
You told a girl of seventeen all that?
Yes. I’m glad to say I broke her down utterly.
Poor little devil.
I’ve no patience with this indulgence toward sin.
And then, I suppose, you turned her out of the house?
Of course.
And she didn’t dare go home -
What did you feel like when you found she’d drowned herself?
Feel like?
Yes. Didn’t you blame yourself?
Certainly not. I had nothing with which to reproach myself.
I believe – I believe you really feel like that.
That makes it even more horrible.
That girl’s unbalanced.
“The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made –
In the net which they hid is their own foot taken.”
“The Lord is known by the judgment He executeth,
the wicked is snared in the work of his own hand.”
Breakfast is ready.
“The wicked shall be turned into hell.” Be quiet.
Do you know where the gentlemen are, Miss? Breakfast is ready.
Sir Lawrence Wargrave is sitting out there in the sun.
Doctor Armstrong and Mr. Blore are searching the island.
I shouldn’t bother about them.
“Shall not the isles shake at the sound of the fall,
when the wounded cry, when the slaughter is made
in the midst of thee?”
Shall we go in?
I don’t feel like eating.
Breakfast is ready.
“Then all the princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones,
and lay away their robes, and put off their ‘broidered garments.”
“They shall clothe themselves with trembling, they shall sit upon the ground
and shall tremble at every moment, and be astonished at thee.”
Reading aloud, Miss Brent?
It is my custom to read a portion of the Bible every day.
Very good habit, I’m sure.
What luck did you have?
There’s no cover in the island.
No caves. No one could hide anywhere.
That’s right. What about the house, Lombard?
No one. I’ll stake my life there’s no one
in the house but ourselves.
I’ve been over it from attic to cellar.
Breakfast is getting cold.
Breakfast! Come on, Blore.
You’ve been yelping for breakfast ever since you got up.
Let’s eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die.
Or who knows, perhaps, even today!
You ought to be ashamed of such levity, Captain Lombard.
Come on, General, can’t have this.
Breakfast, I say, sir
Good God! One got left behind:
there’s a knife in MACKENZIE’s back.
He’s dead – he’s dead.
But he can’t be – Who could have done it?
There’s only us on the island.
Exactly, my dear sir.
Don’t you realize that this clever and cunning criminal
is always comfortably one stage ahead of us?
That he knows exactly what we are going to do next, and makes his plans accordingly?
There’s only one place, you know, where a successful murderer
could hide and have a reasonable chance
of getting away with it.
One place – where?
Here in this room – Mr. Owen is one of us!
// Act II, Scene II
Sir Lawrence?
 Well, Mr. Blore?
I wanted to get you alone. You were right in what you said this morning.
This damned murderer is one of us.
And I think I know which one.
Really?
Ever hear of the Lizzie Borden case? In America.
Old couple killed with an axe in the middle of the morning.
Only person who could have done it was the daughter,
a respectable, middle-aged spinster.
Incredible. So incredible that they acquitted her.
But they never found any other explanation.
Then your answer to the problem is Miss Emily Brent?
I tell you that woman is mad as a hatter.
Religious mad, I tell you – she’s the one.
And we must watch her.
Really? I had formed the impression that your suspicions
were in a different quarter.
Yes – but I’ve changed my mind, and I’ll tell you why:
she’s not scared and she’s the only one who isn’t. Why?
Because she knows quite well she’s in no danger
We’ve made some coffee. Brr – it’s cold in here.
You’d hardly believe it when you think
what a beautiful day it was this morning.
Are Captain Lombard and Rogers still out?
Yes. No boat will put out in this –
and it couldn’t land, anyway.
Miss Brent’s.
Allow me.
You were right to insist on our going to lunch
and drinking some brandy with it. I feel better.
The court always adjourns for lunch.
All the same, it’s a nightmare.
It seems as though it can’t be true.
What – what are we going to do about it?
We must hold an informal court of inquiry.
We may at least be able to eliminate some innocent people.
You haven’t got a hunch of any kind, have you, Miss Claythorne?
If Miss Claythorne suspects one of us three,
that is rather an awkward question.
I’m sure it isn’t any of you.
If you ask me who I suspected, I’d say Doctor Armstrong.
Armstrong?
Yes. Because, don’t you see, he’s had far and away
the best chance to kill Mrs. Rogers.
Terribly easy for him, as a doctor,
to give her an overdose of sleeping stuff.
That’s true. But someone else gave her brandy, remember.
Her husband had a good opportunity of administering a drug.
It isn’t Rogers. He wouldn’t have the brains
to fix all this stunt – nor the money.
Besides you can see he’s scared stiff.
My God, it’s something like a storm.
Oh, it’s only you –
Who did you think it was?  Beatrice Taylor?
Eh?
Not a hope of rescue until this dies down.
Is that coffee? Good. I’m taking to coffee now, you see.
Such restraint in the face of danger is nothing short of heroic.
I do not, of course, profess to be a weather prophet.
But I should say that it is very unlikely
that a boat could reach us,
even if it knew of our plight,
under twenty – four hours.
Even if the wind drops, the sea has still to go down.
You’re awfully wet.
Is anyone a swimmer?
Would it be possible to swim to the mainland?
It’s over a mile
and in this sea you’d be dashed on the rocks and drowned.
Drowned – drowned in the pond –
I beg your pardon, Miss Brent.
After dinner nap.
It’s terribly cold in here.
I could light the fire if you like, Miss?
That would be a good idea.
Very sound scheme, Rogers.
Excuse me, but does anybody know
what’s become of the top bathroom curtain?
Really, Rogers, are you going bats too?
The bathroom curtain?
Yes, sir. Scarlet oilsilk. It’s missing.
Anybody seen a scarlet oilsilk curtain?
No good, I’m afraid, Rogers.
It doesn’t matter, sir, only I just thought as it was odd.
Everything on this island is odd.
I’ll get some sticks and a few knobs of coal and get a nice fire going.
I wonder if he would like some hot coffee.
He’s very wet.
What’s become of Armstrong?
He went to his room to rest.
Somebody’s probably batted him one by now!
I expect he had the good sense to bolt his door.
It won’t be so easy now that we’re all on our guard.
I advise you, Mr. Blore, not to be too confident.
I should like shortly to propose certain measures of safety,
which I think we should all adopt.
Against whom?
Against each other. We are all in grave danger.
Of the ten people who came to this island,
three are definitely cleared. There are seven of us left
– seven little soldier boys.
One of whom is a bogus little soldier boy.
Exactly.
Well, in spite of what Miss Claythorne said just now, I’d say
that you, Sir Lawrence, and Doctor Armstrong are above suspicion.
He’s a well-known doctor, and you’re known all over England.
Mr. Blore, that proves nothing at all.
Judges have gone mad before now. So have doctors.
So have policemen.
Hear, hear.  Well, does he want some coffee?
He’d rather make himself a nice cup of tea!
What about Doctor Armstrong? Do you think we ought to take him up a cup?
I will take it up if you like.
I’ll take it. I want to change.
Yes, you ought to. You’ll catch cold.
I think Doctor Armstrong might prefer to see me.
He might not admit you, Captain Lombard.
He might be afraid of your revolver.
Ah, the revolver.  I want a word with you about that –
Do go and change.
What were you going to say?
I’d like to know why you brought a revolver down here
on what’s supposed to be a little social visit.
You do, do you?  I’ve led a rather adventurous life.
I’ve got into the habit of taking a revolver about with me.
I’ve been in a bit of a jam once or twice.
It’s a pleasant feeling to have a gun handy.
Don’t you agree?
We don’t carry them. Now, then, I want the truth about this gun –
What a damned suspicious fellow you are, Blore!
I know a fishy story when I hear one.
If it’s about that revolver, I’d like to hear
what you’ve got to say.
Oh, well, I got a letter, asking me to come here as the
guest of Mr. and Mrs. Owen – It would be worth my while.
The writer said that he had heard I’d got a reputation
for being a good man in a tight place.
There might be some danger, but I’d be all right
if I kept my eyes open.
I’d never have fallen for that.
Well, I did. I was bored. God, how I was bored
back in this tame country. It was an intriguing proposition, you must admit.
Too vague for my liking.
That was the whole charm. It aroused my curiosity.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Yes, quite.
Oh, do go and change, please!
I’m going, my sweet, I’m going.
The maternal instinct I think it’s called.
Don’t be ridiculous –
That’s a tall story. If it’s true,
why didn’t he tell it to us last night?
He might have thought that this was exactly the emergency
for which he had been prepared.
Perhaps it is.
I hardly think so. It was just Mr. Owen’s little bit of cheese
to get him into the trap with the rest of us.
He must have known him well enough
to rely on his curiosity.
If it’s true, he’s a wrong ‘un, that man.
I wouldn’t trust him a yard.
Are you such a good judge of truth?
We must get out of here – we must before it is too late.
The one thing we must not do is to give away to nerves.
I’m sorry.  Rather a case of “Physician, heal thyself.”
But I’ve been overworked lately and run down.
Sleeping badly?
Yes. I keep dreaming – Hospital – operations – A knife at my throat –
Real nightmares.
Yes.  Do you ever dream you’re in court –
sentencing a man to death?
Are you by any chance referring to a man called Edward Seton?
I can assure you I should not lose any sleep
over the death of Edward Seton.
A particularly brutal and cold-blooded murderer.
The jury liked him. They were inclined to let him off.
I could see. However –  I cooked Seton’s goose.
Brr! Cold in here, isn’t it?
I wish Rogers would hurry up.
Yes, where is Rogers? He’s been a long time.
He said he’d got to get some sticks.
Sticks? Sticks? My God, sticks!
My God!
Is another one gone? Are there only six?
There are only five.
Five?
Rogers and Lombard?
Oh, no, not Philip!
Where the hell is Blore off to like a madman?
Oh, Philip, I –
Have you seen Rogers?
No, why should I?
Two more soldiers have gone.
Two?
I thought it was you –
Well, what is it?
In the – scullery.
Is he – ?
Oh, yes, he’s dead all right
How?
With an axe. Somebody must have come up behind him
whilst he was bent over the wood box.
“One chopped himself in half – then there were six.”
Stop it. Vera – Stop it! She’ll be all right.
What next, boys? Bees? Do they keep bees on the island?
Well that’s the next verse, isn’t it?
"Six little soldier boys playing with a hive;
A bumble bee stung one, and then there were five."
A bumble bee stung one –
We all look pretty spry, nothing wrong with any of us.
 My God, you don’t think – A hypodermic syringe.
The modern bee sting.
While she was sitting there – one of us –
One of us.
Which of us?
