
Ten little soldier boys went out to dine;
One choked his little self and then there were Nine.
Nine little soldier boys sat up very late;
One overslept himself and then there were Eight.
Eight little soldier boys traveling in Devon;
One said he’d stay there and then there were Seven.
Seven little soldier boys chopping up sticks;
One chopped himself in halves and then there were Six.
Six little soldier boys playing with a hive;
A bumblebee stung one and then there were Five.
Five little soldier boys going in for law;
One got into chancery and then there were Four.
Four little soldier boys going out to sea;
A red herring swallowed one and then there were Three.
Three little soldier boys walking in the Zoo;
A big bear hugged one and then there were Two.
Two little soldier boys sitting in the sun;
One got frizzled up and then there was One.
One little soldier boy left all alone;
He went and hanged himself, and then there were None.

First lot to be arriving in Jim’s boat.
Another lot not far behind.
Good evening, Fred.
Good evening, Mrs. Rogers.
Is that the boat?
Yes.
Oh, dear, already?
Have you remembered everything?
I think so. Lemons. Slip soles. Cream. Eggs
tomatoes and butter. That’s all, wasn’t it?
That’s right. So much to do I don’t know where to start.
No maids till the morning,
and all these guests arriving today.
Calm down, Ethel, everything’s shipshape now.
Looks nice, don’t it, Fred?
Looks neat enough for me.
Kind of bare,
but rich folks like places bare, it seems.
Rich folks is queer.
And he was a queer sort of gentleman
as built this place.
Spent a wicked lot of money on it he did,
and then gets tired of it
and puts the whole thing up for sale.
Beats me why the Owens wanted to buy it,
living on a island.
Oh, come off it, Ethel,
and take all that stuff out into the kitchen.
They’ll be here any minute now.
Making that steep climb
an excuse for a drink, I suppose.
Like some others I know.
That be young Jim. I’ll be getting along.
There’s two gentlemen arriving by car, I understand.
I shall want at least five loaves in the morning
and eight pints of milk, remember.
Right.
Don’t forget the oil for the engine, Fred.
I ought to charge up tomorrow,
or I’ll have the lights running down.
‘Twas held up on railway. It’s at the station now.
I’ll bring it across the first thing tomorrow.
And give a hand with the luggage, will you?
Right.
I forgot to give you the list of guests, Tom.
Thanks, old girl. H’mm, doesn’t look a very classy lot to me.
Miss Claythorne. She’ll probably be the secretary.
I don’t hold much with secretaries.
Worse than hospital nurses,
and them giving themselves airs and graces
and looking down on the servants.
Oh, stop grousing, Ethel, and cut along
to that lovely up-to-date expensive kitchen of yours.
Too many new-fangled gadgets for my fancy!
So this is it!
How perfectly lovely!
Miss Claythorne!
You’re – Rogers?
Yes. Good evening, Miss.
Good evening, Rogers.
Will you bring up my luggage and Captain Lombard’s?
Very good, Miss.
You’ve been here before?
No – but I’ve heard a lot about the place.
From Mr. and Mrs. Owen?
No, old Johnny Brewer, a pal of mine,
built this house – it’s a sad and poignant story.
A love story?
Yes, ma’am – the saddest of all.
He was a wealthy old boy and fell in love
with the famous Lily Logan – married her –
bought the island and built this place for her.
Sounds most romantic.
Poor Johnny! He thought by cutting her off from the rest of the world –
without even a telephone as means of communication – he could hold her.
But of course the fair Lily tired of her ivory tower – and escaped?
U’huh. Johnny went back to Wall Street,
made a few more millions, and the place was sold.
And here we are.
//
Well, I ought to find Mrs. Owen.
The others will be up in a minute.
It would be very rude to leave me here all by myself.
Would it? Oh, well, I wonder where she is?
She’ll come along when she’s ready.
While we’re waiting, do you think I could have a drink?
I’m very dry.
Of course you could.
It’s certainly warm after that steep climb.
What’s yours?
No, thanks, not for me – not on duty.
A good secretary is never off duty.
Really. This is exciting!
What?
All this. The smell of the sea – the gulls – the beach
and this lovely house. I am going to enjoy myself.
I think you are. I think we both are.
Here’s to you – you’re very lovely.
Where is Mrs. Owen?
Mr. and Mrs. Owen won’t be down from London until tomorrow, Miss.
I thought you knew.
Tomorrow – but –
I’ve got a list here of the guests expected, Miss,
if you would like to have it.
The second boatload’s just arriving.
Thank you.
How awful – I say, you will be sweet and help me,
won’t you?
I won’t move from your side.
Thank you.
It seems silly to have brought only us in the first boat
and all the rest in the second.
That, I’m afraid, was design, not accident.
Design? What do you mean?
I suggested to the boatman that there was no need to wait for any more passengers.
That and five shillings soon started up the engine.
Oh, you shouldn’t have done that!
Well, they’re not a very exciting lot, are they?
I thought the young man was rather nice-looking.
Callow. Definitely callow. And very, very young.
I suppose you think a man in his thirties is more attractive.
I don’t think, my darling – I know.

Wizard place you’ve got here.
I’m Mrs. Owen’s secretary.
Mrs. Owen has been detained in London, I’m afraid,
and won’t be down until tomorrow.
Oh, too bad.
May I introduce Captain Lombard, Mr. – er –
Marston, Anthony Marston.
Have a drink?
Oh, thank you.
What will you have? Gin, whiskey, sherry – ?
Whiskey, I think.
Wonderful place you have here.
I’m Mrs. Owen’s secretary.
Mrs. Owen has been detained in London, I’m afraid,
and won’t be down until tomorrow.
Say when!
Oh, wizard!
How are you?
My name’s Lombard. Have a drink, Mr. –
Davis. Davis is the name.
Mr. Davis – Mr. Marston!
How are you, Mr. Marston? Pleased to meet you.
Thanks, Mr. Lombard. I don’t mind if I do.
Bit of a stiff climb up here.
But whew! What a view and what a height!
Reminds me of South Africa, this place.
Does it? What part?
Oh – er – Natal, Durban, you know.
Really?
Well, here’s to temperance. Do you – er – know South Africa?
Me? No.
That’s where I come from. That’s my Natal state
Interesting country. I should think.
Finest country in the world, sir.
Gold, silver, diamonds, oranges, everything a man could want.
Talk about a land flowing with beer and skittles.
Er – How do you do?
General MacKenzie, isn’t it? I’m Mrs. Owen’s secretary.
Mrs. Owen has been detained in London, I’m afraid,
and won’t be down until tomorrow.
Can I introduce Captain Lombard – Mr. Marston and Mr. –
Davis, Davis is the name.
Whiskey and soda, sir?
Er – thanks. You in the service?
Formerly in the King’s African Rifles. Too tame for me in peace time.
I chucked it.
Pity.
When.
Where is Mrs. Owen?
Miss Brent, isn’t it? I’m Mrs. Owen’s secretary.
Mrs. Owen has been detained in London, I’m afraid.
And won’t be down until tomorrow.
Indeed. Extraordinary. Did she miss the train?
I expect so. Won’t you have something?
May I introduce Captain Lombard – General MacKenzie –
Mr. Marston. I think you all met on the boat. And Mr. –
Davis, Davis is the name. May I take your case?
Do let me give you a drink? A dry martini? A glass of sherry?
Whiskey and soda?
I never touch alcohol.
You never touched alcohol!
I suppose you know, young man.
that you left us standing there on the wharf?
I’m afraid, Miss Brent, I was to blame for that. I wanted to –
It seems to me most extraordinary that Mrs. Owen
should not be here to receive her guests.
Perhaps she’s the kind of person who just can’t help missing trains.
That’s what I reckon she is.
Not at all. Mrs. Owen isn’t the least like that.
Perhaps it was her husband’s fault.
She hasn’t got a husband.
I should like to go to my room.
Of course. I’ll take you there.
You’ll find Mrs. Rogers upstairs, Miss.
She will show you the room.
I’m afraid our host and hostess haven’t arrived, sir.
My name’s Lombard.
Mine’s Wargrave. How do you do?
How do you do? Have a drink, sir?
Yes, please. A whiskey.
How are you? Davis, Davis is the name.
I say, wonderful place you’ve got here. Quite unique.
As you say – quite unique.
Your drink, sir.
Old Badger Berkely rolled up yet?
Who did you say?
Badger Berkely. He roped me in for this show.
When’s he coming?
I don’t think he is coming.
Nobody of the name of Berkely.
The dirty old double-crosser! He’s let me down.
Well, it’s a pretty wizard island.
Rather a wizard girl, that secretary.
She ought to liven things up a bit.
I say, old man, what about dressing for dinner
if there’s time?
Sounds good. Let’s go and explore.
How wizard!
Things are a bit at sixes and sevens
with the Owens not turning up.
Tricky, what? I say, wizard place for a holiday, what?
Aren’t you going to sit down?
Well, to tell you the truth, you seem to be in my chair.
I am sorry. I didn’t realize you were one of the family.
Well, it’s not that exactly.
To tell you the truth, I’ve never been here before.
But you see I live at the Benton Club – have for the last ten years.
And my seat is just about there.
Can’t get used to sitting anywhere else.
It becomes a bit of a habit.
Yes, it certainly does. Thank you
Well, it’s not quite as good as the Club’s, but it’s a nice chair.
To tell you the truth.
I was a bit surprised when I got this invitation.
Haven’t had anything of the kind for well over four years.
Very nice of them, I thought.
Can I have your keys, sir?
Is Lady Constance Culmington expected here, can you tell me?
Lady Constance Culmington? I don’t think so, sir.
Unless she’s coming down with Mr. and Mrs. Owen.
Oh.
Allow me, sir. Can I have your keys, sir?
No, thanks. I’ll unpack for myself.
Dinner is at eight o’clock, sir. Shall I show you to your room?
Please.
Here you are, sir. I’ll call Rogers.
How are you? Davis. Davis is the name.
Mine's Armstrong.
Doctor Armstrong, I believe.
Yes.
Thought so. Never forget a face.
Don’t tell me I’ve forgotten one of my patients!
No, no, nothing like that, but I once saw you in Court
giving expert evidence.
Oh, really? Are you interested in the law?
Well, you see, I’m from South Africa.
Naturally, legal processes in this country
are bound to interest a colonial.
Oh, yes, of course.
Have a drink?
No, thanks. I never touch it.
Do you mind if I do? Mine’s empty.
Not a bit.
I’ve been having a look round the island.
It’s a wonderful place, isn’t it?
Wonderful. I thought as I was coming across the mainland
what a haven of peace this was.
Too peaceful for some, I daresay.
Wonderfully restful. Wonderful for the nerves.
I’m a nerve specialist, you know.
Yes, I know that. Did you come down by train?
No, I motored down. Dropped in on a patient on the way.
Great improvement – wonderful response.
Best part of two hundred miles, isn’t it?
How long did it take you?
I didn’t hurry. I never hurry.
Bad for the nerves.
Some mannerless young fellow nearly drove me
into the ditch near Amesbury.
Shot past me at about eighty miles an hour.
Disgraceful bit of driving. I’d like to have had his number.
Yes, and if only more people would take
the numbers of these young road hogs.
Yes. You must excuse me.
I must have a word with Mr. Owen.
Oh, but – Mr. Owen isn’t coming down –
You rang, sir?
Yes, take my hat, will you? What time’s supper?
Dinner is at eight o’clock, sir. In a quarter of an hour.
I think tonight dressing will be optional.
Got a good place, here.
Yes, thank you, sir.
Been here long?
Just under a week, sir.
Is that all?
So I don’t suppose you know much about this crowd that’s here?
No, sir.
All old friends of the family?
I really couldn’t say, sir.
Oh, well – Oh, Rogers –
Yes, sir?
Rogers, do you think you could put some sandwiches
and a bottle of beer in my room at night?
I get an ‘el of an appetite with this sea air.
I’ll see what I can do, sir.
Rogers – I’ll see you won’t lose by it.
Where’s my room?
I’ll show you, sir.
Good, I can do with a wash and brush up straightaway.
Oh, there you are, Rogers.
You ought to clear these dirty glasses.
You’re always leaving the dirty work to me.
Here I am with a four-course dinner on my hands and no one to help me.
You might come and give me a hand with the dishing up.
Who was it that you were talking to, by the way?
Davis. South African gentleman. No class if you ask me –
and no money either.
I don’t like him – Don’t like any of ‘em much.
More like that bunch we had in the boarding house, I’d say.
Davis gives out he’s a millionaire or something.
You should see his underwear! Cheap as they make ‘em.
Well, as I said, it’s not treating us right.
All these visitors arriving today and the maids not coming till tomorrow.
What do they think we are?
Now, then – Anyway, the money’s good.
So it ought to be! Catch me going into service again
unless the money was good.
Well, it is good, so what are you going on about?
Well, I can tell you this, Rogers.
I’m not staying any place where I’m put upon.
Cooking’s my business! I’m a good cook –
First rate, old girl.
But the kitchen’s my place and housework’s none of my business.
All these guests!
I’ve a good mind to put my hat and coat on
and walk out now and go straight back to Plymouth.
You can’t do that, old girl,
Who says I can’t? Why not, I should like to know?
Because you’re on a island, old girl. Had you forgotten that?
Yes, and I don’t know as I fancy
being on an island.
Don’t know that I do, either, come to that.
No slipping down to a pub, or going to the pictures.
Oh, well, it’s double wages on account of the difficulties.
And there’s plenty of beer in the house.
That’s all you ever think about – beer.
Now, now, stop your nagging. You get back to the kitchen or your dinner will be spoilt.
It’ll be spoilt anyway, I expect.
Everybody’s going to be late. Wasted on them, anyway.
Thank goodness, I didn’t make a souffle.

Oh, dinner won’t be a minute, Miss.
Just a question of dishing up.
Is everything all right, Rogers? Can you manage between the two of you?
Yes, thank you, Miss. The Missus talks a lot, but she gets it done.
What a lovely evening!
Yes, indeed. The weather seems very settled.
How plainly one can hear the sea.
A pleasant sound.
Hardly a breath of wind – and deliciously warm.
Not like England at all.
I should have thought you might feel a little
uncomfortable in that dress.
Oh, no.
It’s rather tight, isn’t it?
Oh, I don’t think so.
You’ll excuse me, my dear, but you’re a young girl
and you’ve got your living to earn.
Yes?
A well-bred woman doesn’t like her secretary
to appear flashy.
It looks, you know, as though you were trying to attract
the attention of the opposite sex.
And would you say I do attract them?
That’s beside the point.
A girl who deliberately sets out to get the attention of men
won’t be likely to keep her job long.
Ah! Surely that depends on who she’s working for?
Really, Miss Claythorne!
Aren’t you being a little unkind?
Young people nowadays behave in the most disgusting fashion.
Disgusting?
Yes. Low-backed evening dresses.
Lying half naked on beaches.
All this so-called sunbathing.
An excuse for immodest conduct, nothing more.
Familiarity! Christian names – drinking cocktails!
And look at the young men nowadays.
Decadent! Look at that young Marston. What good is he?
And that Captain Lombard!
What do you object to in Captain Lombard?
I should say he was a man who’d led
a very varied and interesting life.
The man’s an adventurer.
All this younger generation is no good – no good at all.
You don’t like youth – I see.
What do you mean?
I was just remarking that you don’t like young people.
And is there any reason why I should, pray?
Oh, no but it seems to me that you must miss an awful lot.
You’re very impertinent.
I’m sorry, but that’s just what I think.
The world will never improve
until we stamp out immodesty.
Quite pathological.
What did you say?
Nothing.
What about the old boy –
He looks rather like a tortoise, don’t you think so?
All judges look like tortoises.
They have that venomous way of darting their heads,
in and out.
Mr. Justice Wargrave is no exception.
I hadn’t realized he was a judge.
Oh, yes. He’s probably been responsible
for sending more innocent people to their death
than anyone in England.
Hello, you. Do you two know each other?
Mr. Armstrong – Miss Claythorne.
Armstrong and I have just decided that the old boy –
Yes, I heard you and so did he, I think.
Oh, Sir Lawrence.
Miss Brent, isn’t it?
There’s something I want to ask you.
Will you come out here?
A remarkably fine night!
Absolutely wizard car – a super-charged Sports Varletti Carlotta.
You don’t see many of them on the road.
I can get over a hundred out of her.
Did you come from London?
Yes, two hundred and eight miles and
I did it in a bit over four hours.
Too many cars on the road, though, to keep it up.
Touched ninety going over Salisbury Plain. Not too bad, eh?
I think you passed me on the road.
Oh, yes?
You nearly drove me into the ditch.
Did I? Sorry.
If I’d seen your number, I’d have reported you.
But you were footling along in the middle of the road.
Footling? Me footling?
Oh, well, what about a drink?
Good idea.Will you have one, Miss Claythorne?
No, thank you.
Good evening, Mrs. Owen.
Why Mrs. Owen?
You’d make the most attractive wife for any wealthy businessman.
Do you always flirt so outrageously?
Always.
Oh! Well, now we know.
Tell me, what’s old Miss Brent talking to the Judge about?
She tried to buttonhole him upstairs.
I don’t know.
Funny – she seemed so definite that there wasn’t a Mr. Owen.
You don’t think that Mrs. Owen –
I mean that there isn’t – that they aren’t –
What, married you mean?
Damn shame we don’t know each other.
I could have given you a lift down.
Yes, that would have been grand.
Like to show you what I can do across Salisbury Plain.
Tell you what – maybe we can drive back together?
But I -
But it seems damn silly. I’ve got an empty car.
Yes, but she likes the way she’s going back and –
Look! Aren’t they sweet? Those ten little china soldiers.
Oh, and there’s the old nursery rhyme.
What are you talking about? What figures? What nursery rhyme?
“Ten little soldier boys going out to dine.
One choked his little self and then there were nine – ”
“Nine little soldier boys sat up very late.
One overslept himself and then there were eight.”
“Eight little soldier boys traveling in Devon.
One got left behind and then there were seven – ”
Ladies and Gentlemen, silence, please!
You are charged with these indictments:
that you did respectively and at diverse times commit the following:
Edward Armstrong, that you did cause the death of Louisa Mary Clees.
William Henry Blore, that you brought about the death of
James Stephen Lendor.
Emily Caroline Brent, that you were responsible
for the death of Beatrice Taylor.
Vera Elizabeth Claythorne, that you killed Peter Ogilvie Hamilton.
Philip Lombard, that you were guilty of the deaths
of twenty-one men, members of an East African tribe.
John Gordon MacKenzie, that you sent your wife’s lover,
Arthur Richmond, to his death.
Anthony James Marston, that you were guilty of the murder
of John and Lucy Combes.
Thomas Rogers and Ethel Rogers, that you brought about
the death of Jennifer Brady.
Lawrence John Wargrave, that you were guilty
of the murder of Edward Seton.
Prisoners at the bar, have you anything to say in your defense?
It’s nothing much. She’s fainted, that’s all.
She’ll be round in a minute.
Get some brandy.
Rogers, get some brandy.
Who was that speaking? It sounded –
What’s going on here? What kind of practical joke was that?
Where the devil did that voice come from?

Here we are.
You are charged with these indictments –
Turn it off! Turn it off! It’s horrible!
A disgraceful and heartless practical joke.
So you think it’s a joke, do you?
What else could it be?
At the moment I’m not prepared to give an opinion.
Who the devil turned it on, though? And set it going?
We must enquire into that.
Oh, dear me! Oh, dear me!
Allow me, Madam. Allow me, sir.
If I speak to her – Ethel – Ethel – It’s all right.
All right, do you hear? Pull yourself together.
You’ll be all right now, Mrs. Rogers. Just a nasty turn.
Did I faint, sir?
Yes.
It was the voice – the awful voice – like a judgment –
Where’s the brandy?
Drink this, Mrs. Rogers.
I’m all right now. It just – gave me a turn.
Of course it did. Gave me a turn too.
Wicked lies it was. I’d like to know –
Who was it put that record on the gramophone? Was it you, Rogers?
I was just obeying orders, sir, that’s all.
Whose orders?
Mr. Owen’s.
Let me get this quite clear.
Mr. Owen’s orders were – what exactly?
I was to put a record on the gramophone in the study.
I’d find the records in the drawer in there.
I was to start with that one, sir.
I thought it was just to give you all some music.
A very remarkable story.
It’s the truth, sir. Before Heaven, it’s the truth.
I didn’t know what it was – not for a moment.
It had a name on it. I thought it was just a piece of music.
Is there a title?
A title? Yes, sir. It’s entitled “Swan Song.”
The whole thing is preposterous – preposterous!
Slinging accusations about like this.
Something must be done about it. This fellow Owen, whoever he is –
That’s just it. Who is he?
That is exactly what we must go into very carefully.
I should suggest that you get your wife to bed, Rogers.
Then come back here.
Yes, sir.
I’ll give you a hand.
 Will she be all right, Doctor?
Yes, quite all right.
Don’t know about you, sir,
but I feel I need another drink.
I agree.
I’ll get them.
Preposterous – that’s what it is – preposterous.
Whiskey for you, Sir Lawrence?
 I should like a glass of water, please.
Yes, I’ll get it. I’ll have a little whiskey too.
She’ll be all right.
I’ve given her a sedative.
Now, then, Doctor, you’ll want a drink after all this.
No, thank you. I never touch it.
Oh, so you said. You have this one, General?
Now, then, Rogers, we must get to the bottom of this.
Tell us what you know about Mr. Owen.
He owns this place, sir.
I am aware of that fact. What I want you to tell me is
what you yourself know about the man.
I can’t say, sir.
You see, I’ve never seen him.
What d’you mean, you’ve never seen him?
We’ve only been here just under a week, sir, my wife and I.
We were engaged by letter through a registry office.
The Regina, in Plymouth.
That’s a high-class firm. We can check on that.
Have you got the letter?
The letter engaging us? Yes, sir.
Go on with your story.
We arrived here like the letter said, on the 4th.
Everything was in order, plenty of food in stock and everything very nice.
Just needed dusting and that.
What next?
Nothing, sir. That is.
We got orders to prepare the rooms
for a house party – eight.
Then yesterday, by the morning post, I received another letter
saying Mr. and Mrs. Owen might be detained and,
if so, we was to do the best we could,
and it gave the instructions about dinner
and putting on the gramophone record.
Here it is, sir.
Hmm. Headed Ritz Hotel and typewritten.
Coronation machine Number Five. Quite new.
No defects. Ensign paper – most common make.
We shan’t get much out of this.
We might try it for fingerprints,
but it’s been handled too much.
Quite the little detective.
Got some fancy Christian names, hasn’t he?
Ulick Norman Owen. Quite a mouthful.
I am obliged to you, Mr. Marston.
You have drawn my attention to a curious and suggestive point.
I think the time has come for all of us
to pool our information.
It would be well for everybody to come forward
with all the information they have regarding our unknown host.
We are all his guests.
I think it would be profitable if each one of us
were to explain exactly how that came about.
There’s something very peculiar about all this.
I received a letter with a signature
that was not very easy to read.
It purported to be from a woman whom I had met
at a certain summer resort two or three years ago.
I took the name to be Ogden.
I am quite certain that I have never met or become friendly
with anyone of the name of Owen.
Have you got that letter, Miss Brent?
Yes. I will fetch it for you.
Miss Claythorne?
I never actually met Mrs. Owen.
I wanted a holiday post and I applied to a
secretarial agency.
Miss Grenfell’s in London.
I was offered this post and accepted.
And you were never interviewed by your prospective employer?
No. This is the letter.
“Soldier Island, Sticklehaven, Devon.
I have received your name from Miss Grenfell’s Agency.
I understand she knows you personally.
I shall be glad to pay you the salary you ask,
and shall expect you to take up your duties on August 8th.
The train is the 12:10 from Paddington
and you will be met at Oakbridge Station.
I enclose five pounds for expenses.
Yours truly, Una Nancy Owen”
Mr. Marston?
Don’t actually know the Owens.
Got a wire from a pal of mine, Badger Berkely.
Told me to roll up here.
Surprised me a bit because I had an idea
the old horse had gone to Norway.
I haven’t got the wire.
Thank you. Doctor Armstrong?
In the circumstances, I
think I may admit that my visit here was professional.
Mr. Owen wrote me that he was worried
about his wife’s health – her nerves, to be precise.
He wanted a report without her being alarmed.
He therefore suggested that my visit should be regarded as
that of an ordinary guest.
You had no previous acquaintance with the family?
No.
But you had no hesitation in obeying the summons?
A colleague of mine was mentioned
and a very handsome fee was suggested.
I was due for a holiday, anyway.
“Dear Miss Brent: I do hope you remember me.
We were together at Bell Haven Guest House
in August some years ago
and we seemed to have so much in common.
I am starting a guest house of my own on an island off the coast of Devon.
I think there is really an opening for a place
where there is good plain English cooking,
and a nice old-fashioned type of person.
None of this nudity and gramophones half the night.
I shall be very glad if you could see your way to spending
your summer holiday on Soldier Island – as my guest, of course.
I suggest August 8th, 12:40 from Paddington to Oakbridge.
Yours sincerely, U.N.”
Hmm. Yes, the signature is slightly ambiguous.
I like the nudity touch!
Here is my own decoy letter.
From an old friend of mine, Lady Constance Culmington.
She writes in her usual vague, incoherent way,
and urges me to join her here
and refers to her host and hostess in the vaguest of terms.
Look here, I’ve just thought of something
In a minute.
But I –
We will take one thing at a time,
if you don’t mind, Captain Lombard.
General MacKenzie?
Got a letter – from this fellow
Owen – thought I must have met him sometime at the Club –
mentioned some old cronies of mine who were to be here –
hoped I’d excuse informal invitation.
Haven’t kept the letter, I’m afraid.
And you, Captain Lombard?
Same sort of thing.
Invitation mentioning mutual friends.
I haven’t kept the letter either.
Just now we had a somewhat disturbing experience.
An apparently disembodied voice spoke to us all by name,
uttering certain definite accusations against us.
We will deal with those accusations presently.
At the moment I am interested in a minor point.
Amongst the names received was that of William Henry Blore.
But as far as we know, there is no one named Blore amongst us.
The name of Davis was not mentioned.
What have you to say about that, Mr. Davis?
Cat’s out of the bag, it seems.
I suppose I’d better admit my name isn’t Davis.
You are William Henry Blore?
That’s right.
I will add something to that.
Not only are you here under a false name, Mr. Blore,
but in addition I’ve noticed this evening that
you’re a first- class liar.
You claim to have come from Natal, South Africa.
I know South Africa and Natal well, and I’m prepared to swear
that you’ve never set foot there in your life.
You gentlemen have got me wrong. I’m an ex – C.I.D. man.
Oh, a copper!
I’ve got my credentials and I can prove it.
I run a detective agency in Plymouth. I was put onto this job.
By whom?
Why, Mr. Owen. Sent a very nice money order for expenses,
and said I was to join the house party,
posing as a guest.
He also sent a list of all your names
and said I was to keep an eye on you all.
Any reason given?
Said Mrs. Owen had got some valuable jewels.
Mrs. Owen, my foot! I don’t believe there’s any such person.
Your conclusions are, I think, justified.
Ulick Norman Owen, Una Nancy Owen.
Each time, that is to say. U.N. Owen. Or: Unknown.
But it’s fantastic! Mad!
Oh, yes, I’ve no doubt in my own mind
that we have been invited here by a madman –
probably a dangerous homicidal lunatic.
Oh, my gawd!
Whoever it is who has enticed us here,
that person has taken the trouble to find out a great deal about us.
A very great deal.
And out of his knowledge concerning us, he has made certain
definite accusations.
It’s all very well to make accusations.
A pack of damn lies! Slander!
It’s iniquitous! Wicked!
A lie – a wicked lie – we never did, neither of us –
Don’t know what the damned fool was getting at –
I wish to say this.
Our unknown friend accuses me of the murder
of one Edward Seton. I remember Seton perfectly well.
He came up before me for trial in June, 1930.
He was charged with the murder of an elderly woman.
He was very ably defended and made a good impression
on the jury in the witness box. Nevertheless, on the evidence
he was certainly guilty. I summed up accordingly
and the jury brought in a verdict of guilty.
In passing sentence of death,
I fully concurred with this verdict.
The appeal was lodged on the grounds of misdirection.
The appeal was dismissed and the man was duly executed.
I wish to say before you all that my conscience
is perfectly clear on the matter. I did my duty and nothing more.
I passed sentence on a rightly convicted murderer.
Did you know Seton at all? I mean,personally.
I knew nothing of Seton previous to the trial.
The old boy’s lying. I’ll swear he’s lying.
Fellow’s a madman. Absolute madman.
Got a bee in his bonnet. Got hold of the wrong end of the stick all round.
Best really to leave this sort of thing unanswered.
However, feel I ought to say – no truth –
no truth whatever in what he said about – er –
young Arthur Richmond.
Richmond was one of my officers.
I sent him on reconnaissance in 1917. He was killed.
Also like to say – I resent very much the slur on my wife.
Best woman in the world. Absolutely – Caesar’s wife.
I’ve just been thinking – John and Lucy Combes.
Must have been a couple of kids I ran over near Cambridge.
Beastly bad luck.
For them or for you?
Well, I was thinking – for me – but, of course, you’re right, sir.
It was damned bad luck for them too.
Of course, it was pure accident.
They rushed out of some cottage or other.
I had my license suspended for a year. Beastly nuisance.
This speeding’s all wrong – all wrong.
Young men like you are a danger to the community.
Well, I couldn’t help it. Just an accident.
Might I say a word, sir?
Go ahead, Rogers.
There was a mention, sir, of me and Mrs. Rogers,
and of Miss Jennifer Brady. There isn’t a word of truth in it.
We were with Miss Brady when she died.
She was always in poor health, sir,
always from the time we came to her.
There was a storm, sir, the night she died.
The telephone was out of order.
We couldn’t get the doctor to her.
I went for him, sir, on foot. But he got there too late.
We’d done everything possible for her, sir.
Devoted to her, we were. Anyone will tell you the same.
There was never a word said against us. Never a word.
Came into a nice little something at her death,
I suppose. Didn’t you?
Miss Brady left us a legacy in
recognition of our faithful service.
And why not, I’d like to know?
What about yourself, Mr. Blore?
What about me?
Your name was on the list.
I know, I know. Lendor, you mean?
That was the London & Commercial Bank robbery.
I remember the name, though it didn’t come before me.
Lendor was convicted on your evidence.
You were the police officer in charge of the case.
I was, my Lud.
Lendor got penal servitude for life
and died in Dartmoor a year later. He was a delicate man.
He was a crook. It was him put the night watchman out.
The case was clear from the start.
You were complimented, I think, on your able handling of the case.
I got my promotion. I was only doing my duty.
Convenient word – duty.
What about you, Doctor?
I’m at a loss to understand the matter.
The name meant nothing to me – what was it? Close?
Close? I really don’t remember having a patient of that name –
or its being connected with a death in any way.
The thing’s a complete mystery to me.
Of course, it’s a long time ago.
It might possibly be one of my operation cases in hospital.
They come too late, so many of these people.
Then, when the patient dies, it’s always the surgeon’s fault.
And then it’s better to take up nerve cases
and give up surgery. Some, of course, give up drink.
I protest.
You’ve no right to insinuate such things.
I never touch alcohol.
My dear fellow, I never suggested you did.
Anyway, Mr. Unknown is the only one who knows all the facts.
Miss Claythorne?
I was nursery governess to Peter Hamilton.
We were in Cornwall for the summer.
He was forbidden to swim out far.
One day, when my attention was distracted, he started off –
as soon as I saw what happened I swam after him.
I couldn’t get there in time
Was there an inquest?
Yes, I was exonerated by the Coroner.
His mother didn’t blame me either.
Thank you. Miss Brent?
I have nothing to say.
Nothing?
Nothing.
You reserve your defense?
There is no question of defense.
I have always acted according to dictates of my conscience.
What a law-abiding lot we seem to be!
Myself excepted –
We are waiting for your story, Captain Lombard.
I haven’t got a story.
What do you mean?
I’m sorry to disappoint all of you.
It’s just that I plead guilty. It’s perfectly true.
I left those natives alone in the bush.
Matter of self-preservation.
You abandoned your men?
Not quite the act of a proper gentleman, I’m afraid.
But after all, self-preservation’s a man’s first duty.
And natives don’t mind dying, you know. They
don’t feel about it as Europeans do –
Our inquiry rests there.
Now, Rogers, who else is there on this island besides ourselves
and you and your wife?
Nobody, sir. Nobody at all.
You’re sure of that?
Quite sure, sir.
Thank you. Don’t go, Rogers.
I am not yet clear as to the purpose of our unknown host
in getting us to assemble here.
But in my opinion he’s not sane in the accepted
sense of the word. He may be dangerous.
In my opinion, it would be well for us to leave this place
as soon as possible.
I suggest that we leave here tonight.
I beg your pardon, sir, but there’s no boat on the island.
No boat at all?
No, sir.
Why don’t you telephone to the mainland?
There’s no telephone.
Fred Narracott, he comes over every morning, sir.
He brings the milk and the bread and the post and the papers,
and takes the orders.
A bit unsporting, what?
Ought to ferret out the mystery before we go.
Whole thing’s like a detective story. Positively thrilling.
At my time of life, I have no desire for thrills.
The legal life’s narrowing.
I’m all for crime. Here’s to it.
//
My God, he’s dead!
Dead? D’you mean the fellow just choked and died?
You can call it choking if you like.
He died of asphyxiation, right enough.
Never knew a man could die like that – just of a choking fit.
In the middle of life we are in death.
A man doesn’t die of a mere choking fit, General MacKenzie.
Marston’s death isn’t what we call a natural death.
Was there something in the whiskey?
Yes. By the smell of it, cyanide. Probably potassium cyanide.
Acts pretty well instantaneously.
Then he must have put the stuff in the glass himself.
Suicide, eh? That’s a rum go.
You’d never think he’d commit suicide.
He was so alive. He was enjoying himself.
Oh! Look – here’s one of the little soldiers off the mantelpiece – broken.
//Act II, Scene I
We’ve been up to the top. No sign of that boat yet.
It’s very early still.
Oh, I know.
Still the fellow brings the milk and the bread and all that.
I should have thought he’d have got here before this.
No sign of breakfast yet. Where’s that fellow Rogers?
Oh, don’t let’s bother about breakfast.
How’s the weather looking?
The wind has freshened a bit. Rather a mackerel sky.
Old boy in the train yesterday said we were due for dirty weather.
Shouldn’t wonder if he wasn’t right –
I wish that boat would come.
The sooner we get off this island the better.
It’s absurd not keeping a boat on the island.
No proper harbor. If the wind comes to blow from the southeast,
a boat would get dashed to pieces against the rocks.
But a boat would always be able to make us from the mainland?
No, Miss Brent – that’s just what it wouldn’t.
Do you mean we should be cut off from the land?
Yes. Condensed milk, ryvita and tinned stuff
till the gale had blown itself out.
But you needn’t worry. The sea’s only a bit choppy.
I think the pleasures of living on an island are rather overrated.
I wonder if that boat’s coming.
Annoying the way the house is built slap up against the cliff.
You can’t see the mainland until you’ve climbed to the top.
Shall we go up there again?
It’s no good. Doctor. A watched pot never boils.
There wasn’t a sign of a boat putting out when we were up there just now.
What can this man Narracott be doing?
They’re all like that in Devon. Never hurry themselves.
And where’s Rogers? He ought to be about.
If you ask me, Master Rogers was pretty badly rattled last night.
I know.  Ghastly – the whole thing.
Got the wind up properly.
I’d take an even bet that he and his wife did do that old lady in.
You really think so?
Well, I never saw a man more scared.
Guilty as hell, I should say.
Fantastic – the whole thing – fantastic.
I say, suppose he’s hopped it?
Who, Rogers? But there isn’t any way he could.
There’s no boat on the island. You’ve just said so.
Yes, but I’ve been thinking. We’ve only Rogers’ word for that.
Suppose there is one and he’s nipped off in it the first thing.
Oh! No. He wouldn’t be allowed to leave the island.
Sleep well, General?
I dreamed – yes, I dreamed –
I don’t wonder at that.
I dreamed of Lesley – my wife, you know.
Oh – er – yes – I wish Narracott would come.
Who is Narracott?
The bloke who brought us over yesterday afternoon.
Was it only yesterday?
Yes, I feel like that, too.
Batty gramophone records – suicides –
it’s about all a man can stand.
I shan’t be sorry to see the back of Soldier Island, I give you my word.
So you don’t understand. How strange!
What’s that, General?
I don’t like the look of him.
I reckon young Marston’s suicide must have been a pretty bad shock to him.
He looks years older.
Where is that poor young fellow now?
In the study – put him there myself.
Doctor Armstrong, I suppose it was suicide?
What else could it be?
I don’t know. But suicide –
You know, I had a pretty funny feeling in the night.
This Mr. Unknown Owen, suppose he’s on the island.
Rogers mayn’t know.
Or he may have told him to say so.
Pretty nasty thought, isn’t it?
But would it have been possible for anyone to tamper
with Marston’s drink without our seeing him?
Well, it was standing up there
Anyone could have slipped a dollop of cyanide in it if they’d wanted to.
But that –
Oh, there you are, sir. I’ve been all over the place looking for you.
Could you come up and have a look at my wife, sir?
Yes, of course.  Is she feeling under the weather still?
She’s – she’s –
You won’t leave the island without me?
I wish the boat would come. I hate this place.
Yes. I think the sooner we can get in touch with the police the better.
The police?
The police have to be notified in a case of suicide,
you know, Miss Claythorne.
Oh, yes – of course.
What’s going on here? No sign of any breakfast.
Are you hungry, General? Feeling like breakfast?
Lesley – Lesley – my dear.
No – I’m not – I’m Vera Claythorne.
Of course. Forgive me. I took you for my wife.
Oh!
I was waiting for her, you see.
But I thought your wife was dead – long ago.
Yes. I thought so, too. But I was wrong.
She’s here. On this island.
Good morning.
Good morning, Captain Lombard.
Good morning. Seem to have overslept myself. Boat here yet?
No.
Bit late, isn’t it?
Yes.
Good morning. You and I could have had a swim before breakfast.
Too bad all this.
Too bad you overslept yourself.
You must have good nerves to sleep like that.
Nothing makes me lose my sleep.
Didn’t dream of African natives, by any chance, did you?
No. Did you dream of convicts on Dartmoor?
Look here, I don’t think that’s funny, Captain Lombard.
Well, you started it, you know. I’m hungry. What about breakfast?
The whole domestic staff seems to have gone on strike.
Oh, well, we can always forage for ourselves.
Hullo, that’s strange.
What is?
You remember we found one of these little fellows
smashed last night?
Yes – that ought to leave nine.
That ought to leave nine.
I’m certain there were ten of them here when we arrived.
Well?
There are only eight.
So there are.
I think its queer, don’t you?
Probably only were nine to begin with.
We assumed there were ten because of the rhyme.
Hullo, Armstrong, what’s the matter?
Mrs. Rogers is dead.
No? How?
Died in her sleep.
Rogers thought she was still under the influence of the sleeping draught
I gave her and came down without disturbing her.
He lit the kitchen fire and did this room.
Then, as she hadn’t appeared, he went up, was alarmed by the
look of her and went hunting for me.
She’s been dead about five hours, I should say.
What was it? Heart?
Impossible to say. It may have been.
After all, she had a pretty bad shock last night.
Yes.
She might have been poisoned, I suppose, Doctor?
It is perfectly possible.
With the same stuff as young Marston?
No, not cyanide.
It would have to have been some narcotic or hypnotic.
One of the barbiturates, or chloral. Something like that.
You gave her some sleeping powders last night, didn’t you?
Yes, I gave her a mild dose of Luminal.
Didn’t give her too much, did you?
Certainly not. What do you mean?
All right – no offense, no offense.
I just thought that perhaps if she’d had a weak heart –
The amount I gave her could not have hurt anyone.
Then what exactly did happen?
Impossible to say without an autopsy.
If, for instance, this death had occurred
in the case of one of your private patients,
what would have been your procedure?
Without any previous knowledge of the woman’s state of health,
I could certainly not give a certificate.
She was a very nervous-looking creature.
She had a bad fright last night. Perhaps it was heart failure.
Her heart certainly failed to beat – but what caused it to fail?
Conscience.
What exactly do you mean by that, Miss Brent?
You all heard – she was accused, together with her husband, of having
deliberately murdered her former employer – an old lady.
And you believe that’s true, Miss Brent?
Certainly. You all saw her last night.
She broke down completely and fainted.
The shock of having her wickedness brought home to her was too much for her.
She literally died of fear.
It is a possible theory.
One cannot adopt it without more exact knowledge of her state of health.
If there was a latent cardiac weakness –
Call it, if you prefer, An Act of God.
Oh, no, Miss Brent.
You regard it as impossible that a sinner should be struck down
by the wrath of God? I do not.
My dear lady, in my experience of ill doing,
Providence leaves the work of conviction and chastisement to us mortals
and the process is often fraught with difficulties.
There are no short cuts.
Let’s be practical.
What did the woman have to eat and drink last night
after she went to bed?
Nothing.
Nothing at all? Not a cup of tea? Or a glass of water?
I’ll bet you she had a cup of tea.
That sort always does.
Rogers assures me she had nothing whatever.
He might say so.
So that’s your idea?
Well, why not? You heard that accusation last night.
What if it’s true? Miss Brent thinks it is, for one.
Rogers and his missus did the old lady in.
They’re feeling quite safe and happy about it –
Happy?
Well – they know there’s no immediate danger to them.
Then, last night some lunatic goes and spills the beans.
What happens? It’s the woman cracks. Goes to pieces.
Did you see him hanging round her when she was coming to?
Not all husbandly solicitude? Not on your sweet life.
He was like a cat on hot bricks. And that’s the position.
They’ve done a murder and got away with it.
But if it’s all going to be raked up again now,
it’s the woman will give the show away.
She hadn’t got the nerve to brazen it out.
She’s a living danger to her husband, that’s what she is,
and him – he’s all right. He’ll go on lying till the cows come home,
but he can’t be sure of her.
So what does he do?
He drops a nice little dollop of something into a nice cup of tea,
and when she’s had it, he washes up the cup and saucer
and tells the doctor she ain’t had nothing.
Oh, no. That’s impossible. A man wouldn’t do that –
not to his wife.
You’d be surprised, Miss Claythorne,
what some husbands would do.
Excuse me, Miss, I’m getting on with breakfast.
I’m not much of a hand as a cook, I’m afraid.
It’s lunch that’s worrying me.
Would cold tongue and gelatin be satisfactory?
And I could manage some fried potatoes.
And then there’s tinned fruit and cheese and biscuits.
That will be fine, Rogers.
Lunch? Lunch? We shan’t be here for lunch!
And when the hell’s that boat coming?
Mr. Blore!
What?
You’ll pardon me, sir, but the boat won’t be coming.
What?
Fred Narracott’s always here before eight.
Is there anything else you require, Miss?
No, thank you, Rogers.
And it’s not Rogers! His wife lying dead upstairs
and there he’s cooking breakfast and calmly talking about lunch!
Now he says the boat won’t be corning.
How the ‘ell does he know?
Mr. Blore!
What?
 Oh, don’t you see? He’s dazed.
He’s just carrying on automatically as a good servant would.
It’s – it’s pathetic, really.
He’s pulling a fast one, if you ask me.
The really significant thing is the failure of the boat to arrive.
It means that we are being deliberately cut off from help.
That’s very little time – very little time –
What’s that, General?
Very little time.
We mustn’t waste it talking about things that don’t matter.
Why do you think Narracott hasn’t turned up?
I think the ubiquitous Mr. Owen has given orders.
You mean, told him it’s a practical joke
or something of that kind?
He’d never fall for that, would he?
Why not?
Soldier Island’s got a reputation for people having crazy parties.
This is just one more crazy idea, that’s all.
Narracott knows there’s plenty of food and drink in the island.
Probably thinks it’s all a huge joke.
Couldn’t we light a bonfire up on the top of the island?
So that they’d see it?
That’s probably been provided against.
All signals are to be ignored. We’re cut off all right.
But can’t we do something?
Oh, yes, we can do something. We can find the funny gentleman
who’s staged this little joke, Mr. Unknown Owen.
I’ll bet anything you like he’s somewhere on the island,
and the sooner we get hold of him the better.
Because, in my opinion, he’s mad as a hatter.
And as dangerous as a rattlesnake.
Hardly a very good simile, Captain Lombard.
The rattlesnake at least gives warning of its approach.
Warning? My God, yes!  That’s our warning.
“Ten little soldier boys – ”
There were ten of us after Narracott went, weren’t there?
“Ten little soldier boys going out to dine;
One went and choked himself – ”
Marston choked himself, didn’t he?
And then –
“Nine little soldier boys sat up very late.
One overslept himself – ”
Overslept himself – the last part fits Mrs. Rogers
rather well, doesn’t it?
You don’t think – ? Do you mean that he wants to kill us all?
Yes, I think he does.
And each one fits with the rhyme!
No, no, it’s impossible. It’s coincidence. It must be coincidence.
Only eight little soldier boys here.
I suppose that’s coincidence too. What do you think, Blore?
I don’t like it.
But there’s nobody on the island.
I’m not so sure of that.
This is terrible.
None of us will ever leave this island.
Can’t somebody shut up Grandpa?
Don’t you agree with me, Sir Lawrence?
Up to a point – yes.
Then the sooner we get to work the better.
Come on, Armstrong. Come on, Blore.
We’ll make short work of it.
I’m ready. Nobody’s got a revolver, by any chance?
I suppose that’s too much to hope for.
I’ve got one.
Always carry that about with you?
Usually. I’ve been in some tight places, you know.
Oh. Well, you’ve probably never been in a tighter place
than you are today. If there’s a homicidal maniac
hiding on this island, he’s probably got a whole arsenal
on him – and he’ll use it.
You may be wrong there, Blore.
Many homicidal maniacs are very quiet, unassuming people.
Delightful fellows!
You’d never guess there was anything wrong with them.
If Mr. Owen turns out to be one of that kind,
we’ll leave him to you, Doctor.
Now, then, let’s make a start.
I suggest Captain Lombard searches the house
while we do the island.
Right. House ought to be easy.
No sliding panels or secret doors.
Mind he doesn’t get you before you get him!
Don’t worry. But you two had better stick together – remember –
 “One got left behind.”
Come on, Armstrong.
//
A very energetic young man, Captain Lombard.
Don’t you think he’s right?
If someone is hiding on the island, they’ll
be bound to find him. It’s practically bare rock.
I think this problem needs brains to solve it.
Rather than brawn.
Where are you going?
I’m going to sit in the sun – and think, my dear young lady.
Where did I put that skein of wool?
Did you leave it upstairs?
Shall I go and see if I can find it?
No, I’ll go. I know where it’s likely to be.
I’m glad Captain Lombard has got a revolver.
They’re all wasting time – wasting time.
Do you think so?
Yes, it’s much better to sit quietly – and wait.
Wait for what?
For the end, of course.  I wish I could find Lesley.
Your wife?
Yes. I wish you’d known her. She was so pretty. So gay –
Was she?
I loved her very much.
Of course, I was a lot older than she was.
She was only twenty-seven, you know.
Arthur Richmond was twenty-six. He was my A.D.
Lesley liked him. They used to talk of music and plays together,
and she teased him and made fun of him. I was pleased.
I thought she took a motherly interest in the boy.
Damn fool, wasn’t I? No fool like an old fool.
Exactly like a book the way I found out.
When I was out in France. She wrote to both of us,
and she put the letters in the wrong envelope. So I knew –
Oh, no.
It’s all right, my dear. It’s a long time ago.
But you see I loved her very much – and believed in her.
I didn’t say anything to him – I let it gather inside –
here –  a slow, murderous rage – damned young hypocrite –
I’d liked the boy – trusted him.
I wonder what the others are doing?
I sent him to his death.
Oh –
It was quite easy. Mistakes were being made all the time.
All anyone could say was that I’d lost my nerve a bit,
made a blunder, sacrificed one of my best men.
Yes, it was quite easy. Lesley never knew.
I never told her I’d found out.
We went on as usual –
but somehow nothing was quite real any more.
She died of pneumonia.
She had a heart-shaped face-and grey eyes –
and brown hair that curled.
Oh, don’t.
Yes, I suppose in a way – it was murder.
Curious, murder – and I’ve always been such a law-abiding man.
It didn’t feel like that at the time.
“Serves him damn well right!” that’s what I thought.
But after –  Well, you know, don’t you?
What do you mean?
You don’t seem to understand – I thought you would.
I thought you’d be glad, too, that the end was coming –
I –
We’re all going to die, you know.
I – I don’t know.
You’re very young – you haven’t got to that yet. The relief!
The blessed relief when you know that you’ve done with it all,
that you haven’t got to carry the burden any longer.
General –
Don’t talk to me that way. You don’t understand.
I want to sit here and wait – wait for Lesley to come for me.
I’m frightened – oh! I’m frightened –
All correct. No secret passage – one corpse.
Don’t!
I say, you do look low.
How about a drink to steady your nerves?
A drink! Two corpses in the house at nine o’clock in the morning
and all you say, “Have a drink!”.
An old man going quite crackers
“Have a drink!”
Ten people accused of murder
that’s all right –
just have a drink.
Everything’s fine so long as you have a drink.
All right. All right – stay thirsty.
Oh, you – you’re nothing but a waster...
an adventurer – you make me tired.
I say, you are bet up. What’s the matter, my sweet?
I’m not your sweet.
I’m sorry. I rather thought you were.
Well, you can think again.
Come now – you know you don’t really feel like that.
We’ve got something in common, you and me.
Rogues and murderers can’t fall out.
Rogues and murderers – !
Okay. You don’t like the company of rogues and murderers
and you won’t have a drink. I’ll go and finish searching –
Unpleasant young man! I can’t find it anywhere.
Is anything the matter?
I’m worried about the General. He really is ill, I think.
Looking out for the boat, General?
His sin has found him out.
Oh, don’t.
One must face facts.
Can any of us afford to throw stones?
Even if his wife was no better than she should be –
and she must have been a depraved woman
he had no right to take judgment into his own hands.
What about – Beatrice Taylor?
Who?
That was the name, wasn’t it?
You are referring to that absurd accusation about myself?
Yes.
Now that we are alone, I have no objection
to telling you the facts of the case
Indeed I should like you to hear them.
It was not a fit subject to discuss before gentlemen
so naturally I refused to say anything last night.
That girl, Beatrice Taylor, was in my service.
I was very much deceived in her. She had nice manners
and was clean and willing. I was very pleased with her.
Of course, all that was sheerest hypocrisy.
She was a loose girl with no morals. Disgusting!
It was some time before I found out that she was what they call
“in trouble.”  It was a great shock to me.
Her parents were decent folks too, who had brought her up strictly.
I’m glad to say they didn’t condone her behavior.
What happened?
Naturally, I refused to keep her another hour under my roof.
No one shall ever say I condoned immorality.
Did she drown herself?
Yes.
How old was she?
Seventeen.
Only seventeen.
Quite old enough to know how to behave.
I told her what a low depraved thing she was.
I told her that she was beyond the pale and that
no decent person would take her into their house.
I told her that her child would be the child of sin
and would be branded all its life
– and that the man would naturally not dream of marrying her.
I told her that I felt soiled
by ever having her under my roof –
You told a girl of seventeen all that?
Yes. I’m glad to say I broke her down utterly.
Poor little devil.
I’ve no patience with this indulgence toward sin.
And then, I suppose, you turned her out of the house?
Of course.
And she didn’t dare go home -
What did you feel like when you found she’d drowned herself?
Feel like?
Yes. Didn’t you blame yourself?
Certainly not. I had nothing with which to reproach myself.
I believe – I believe you really feel like that.
That makes it even more horrible.
That girl’s unbalanced.
“The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made –
In the net which they hid is their own foot taken.”
“The Lord is known by the judgment He executeth,
the wicked is snared in the work of his own hand.”
Breakfast is ready.
“The wicked shall be turned into hell.” Be quiet.
Do you know where the gentlemen are, Miss? Breakfast is ready.
Sir Lawrence Wargrave is sitting out there in the sun.
Doctor Armstrong and Mr. Blore are searching the island.
I shouldn’t bother about them.
“Shall not the isles shake at the sound of the fall,
when the wounded cry, when the slaughter is made
in the midst of thee?”
Shall we go in?
I don’t feel like eating.
Breakfast is ready.
“Then all the princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones,
and lay away their robes, and put off their ‘broidered garments.”
“They shall clothe themselves with trembling, they shall sit upon the ground
and shall tremble at every moment, and be astonished at thee.”
Reading aloud, Miss Brent?
It is my custom to read a portion of the Bible every day.
Very good habit, I’m sure.
What luck did you have?
There’s no cover in the island.
No caves. No one could hide anywhere.
That’s right. What about the house, Lombard?
No one. I’ll stake my life there’s no one
in the house but ourselves.
I’ve been over it from attic to cellar.
Breakfast is getting cold.
Breakfast! Come on, Blore.
You’ve been yelping for breakfast ever since you got up.
Let’s eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die.
Or who knows, perhaps, even today!
You ought to be ashamed of such levity, Captain Lombard.
Come on, General, can’t have this.
Breakfast, I say, sir
Good God! One got left behind:
there’s a knife in Mackenzie's back.
He’s dead – he’s dead.
But he can’t be – Who could have done it?
There’s only us on the island.
Exactly, my dear sir.
Don’t you realize that this clever and cunning criminal
is always comfortably one stage ahead of us?
That he knows exactly what we are going to do next,
and makes his plans accordingly?
There’s only one place, you know, where a successful murderer
could hide and have a reasonable chance
of getting away with it.
One place – where?
Here in this room – Mr. Owen is one of us!
// Act II, Scene II
Sir Lawrence?
 Well, Mr. Blore?
I wanted to get you alone. You were right in what you said this morning.
This damned murderer is one of us.
And I think I know which one.
Really?
Ever hear of the Lizzie Borden case? In America.
Old couple killed with an axe in the middle of the morning.
Only person who could have done it was the daughter,
a respectable, middle-aged spinster.
Incredible. So incredible that they acquitted her.
But they never found any other explanation.
Then your answer to the problem is Miss Emily Brent?
I tell you that woman is mad as a hatter.
Religious mad, I tell you – she’s the one.
And we must watch her.
Really? I had formed the impression that your suspicions
were in a different quarter.
Yes – but I’ve changed my mind, and I’ll tell you why:
she’s not scared and she’s the only one who isn’t. Why?
Because she knows quite well she’s in no danger
We’ve made some coffee. Brr – it’s cold in here.
You’d hardly believe it when you think
what a beautiful day it was this morning.
Are Captain Lombard and Rogers still out?
Yes. No boat will put out in this –
and it couldn’t land, anyway.
Miss Brent’s.
Allow me.
You were right to insist on our going to lunch
and drinking some brandy with it. I feel better.
The court always adjourns for lunch.
All the same, it’s a nightmare.
It seems as though it can’t be true.
What – what are we going to do about it?
We must hold an informal court of inquiry.
We may at least be able to eliminate some innocent people.
You haven’t got a hunch of any kind, have you, Miss Claythorne?
If Miss Claythorne suspects one of us three,
that is rather an awkward question.
I’m sure it isn’t any of you.
If you ask me who I suspected, I’d say Doctor Armstrong.
Armstrong?
Yes. Because, don’t you see, he’s had far and away
the best chance to kill Mrs. Rogers.
Terribly easy for him, as a doctor,
to give her an overdose of sleeping stuff.
That’s true. But someone else gave her brandy, remember.
Her husband had a good opportunity of administering a drug.
It isn’t Rogers. He wouldn’t have the brains
to fix all this stunt – nor the money.
Besides you can see he’s scared stiff.
My God, it’s something like a storm.
Oh, it’s only you –
Who did you think it was?  Beatrice Taylor?
Eh?
Not a hope of rescue until this dies down.
Is that coffee? Good. I’m taking to coffee now, you see.
Such restraint in the face of danger is nothing short of heroic.
I do not, of course, profess to be a weather prophet.
But I should say that it is very unlikely
that a boat could reach us,
even if it knew of our plight,
under twenty – four hours.
Even if the wind drops, the sea has still to go down.
You’re awfully wet.
Is anyone a swimmer?
Would it be possible to swim to the mainland?
It’s over a mile
and in this sea you’d be dashed on the rocks and drowned.
Drowned – drowned in the pond –
I beg your pardon, Miss Brent.
After dinner nap.
It’s terribly cold in here.
I could light the fire if you like, Miss?
That would be a good idea.
Very sound scheme, Rogers.
Excuse me, but does anybody know
what’s become of the top bathroom curtain?
Really, Rogers, are you going bats too?
The bathroom curtain?
Yes, sir. Scarlet oilsilk. It’s missing.
Anybody seen a scarlet oilsilk curtain?
No good, I’m afraid, Rogers.
It doesn’t matter, sir, only I just thought as it was odd.
Everything on this island is odd.
I’ll get some sticks and a few knobs of coal and get a nice fire going.
I wonder if he would like some hot coffee.
He’s very wet.
What’s become of Armstrong?
He went to his room to rest.
Somebody’s probably batted him one by now!
I expect he had the good sense to bolt his door.
It won’t be so easy now that we’re all on our guard.
I advise you, Mr. Blore, not to be too confident.
I should like shortly to propose certain measures of safety,
which I think we should all adopt.
Against whom?
Against each other. We are all in grave danger.
Of the ten people who came to this island,
three are definitely cleared. There are seven of us left
– seven little soldier boys.
One of whom is a bogus little soldier boy.
Exactly.
Well, in spite of what Miss Claythorne said just now, I’d say
that you, Sir Lawrence, and Doctor Armstrong are above suspicion.
He’s a well-known doctor, and you’re known all over England.
Mr. Blore, that proves nothing at all.
Judges have gone mad before now. So have doctors.
So have policemen.
Hear, hear.  Well, does he want some coffee?
He’d rather make himself a nice cup of tea!
What about Doctor Armstrong?
Do you think we ought to take him up a cup?
I will take it up if you like.
I’ll take it. I want to change.
Yes, you ought to. You’ll catch cold.
I think Doctor Armstrong might prefer to see me.
He might not admit you, Captain Lombard.
He might be afraid of your revolver.
Ah, the revolver.  I want a word with you about that –
Do go and change.
What were you going to say?
I’d like to know why you brought a revolver down here
on what’s supposed to be a little social visit.
You do, do you?  I’ve led a rather adventurous life.
I’ve got into the habit of taking a revolver about with me.
I’ve been in a bit of a jam once or twice.
It’s a pleasant feeling to have a gun handy.
Don’t you agree?
We don’t carry them. Now, then, I want the truth about this gun –
What a damned suspicious fellow you are, Blore!
I know a fishy story when I hear one.
If it’s about that revolver, I’d like to hear
what you’ve got to say.
Oh, well, I got a letter, asking me to come here as the
guest of Mr. and Mrs. Owen – It would be worth my while.
The writer said that he had heard I’d got a reputation
for being a good man in a tight place.
There might be some danger, but I’d be all right
if I kept my eyes open.
I’d never have fallen for that.
Well, I did. I was bored. God, how I was bored
back in this tame country. It was an intriguing proposition, you must admit.
Too vague for my liking.
That was the whole charm. It aroused my curiosity.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Yes, quite.
Oh, do go and change, please!
I’m going, my sweet, I’m going.
The maternal instinct I think it’s called.
Don’t be ridiculous –
That’s a tall story. If it’s true,
why didn’t he tell it to us last night?
He might have thought that this was exactly the emergency
for which he had been prepared.
Perhaps it is.
I hardly think so. It was just Mr. Owen’s little bit of cheese
to get him into the trap with the rest of us.
He must have known him well enough
to rely on his curiosity.
If it’s true, he’s a wrong ‘un, that man.
I wouldn’t trust him a yard.
Are you such a good judge of truth?
We must get out of here – we must before it is too late.
The one thing we must not do is to give away to nerves.
I’m sorry.  Rather a case of “Physician, heal thyself.”
But I’ve been overworked lately and run down.
Sleeping badly?
Yes. I keep dreaming – Hospital – operations – A knife at my throat –
Real nightmares.
Yes.  Do you ever dream you’re in court –
sentencing a man to death?
Are you by any chance referring to a man called Edward Seton?
I can assure you I should not lose any sleep
over the death of Edward Seton.
A particularly brutal and cold-blooded murderer.
The jury liked him. They were inclined to let him off.
I could see. However –  I cooked Seton’s goose.
Brr! Cold in here, isn’t it?
I wish Rogers would hurry up.
Yes, where is Rogers? He’s been a long time.
He said he’d got to get some sticks.
Sticks? Sticks? My God, sticks!
My God!
Is another one gone? Are there only six?
There are only five.
Five?
Rogers and Lombard?
Oh, no, not Philip!
Where the hell is Blore off to like a madman?
Oh, Philip, I –
Have you seen Rogers?
No, why should I?
Two more soldiers have gone.
Two?
I thought it was you –
Well, what is it?
In the – scullery.
Is he – ?
Oh, yes, he’s dead all right
How?
With an axe. Somebody must have come up behind him
whilst he was bent over the wood box.
“One chopped himself in half – then there were six.”
Stop it. Vera – Stop it! She’ll be all right.
What next, boys? Bees? Do they keep bees on the island?
Well that’s the next verse, isn’t it?
"Six little soldier boys playing with a hive;
A bumble bee stung one, and then there were five."
A bumble bee stung one –
We all look pretty spry, nothing wrong with any of us.
My God, you don’t think – A hypodermic syringe.
The modern bee sting.
While she was sitting there – one of us –
One of us.
Which of us?
// Act III, Scene I
“Five little soldier boys sitting in a row,
watching each other and waiting for the blow.”
New version up to date!
I hardly think this is a moment for facetiousness.
Have to relieve the gloom.
Damn that electric plant running down.
Let’s play a nice round game.
What about inventing one called
“Suspicions?” A suspects B., B. suspects C. – and so on.
Let’s start with Blore. It’s not hard to guess whom Blore suspects.
It sticks out a mile.
I’m your fancy, aren’t I, Blore?
I wouldn’t say no to that.
You’re quite wrong, you know.
Abstract justice isn’t my line.
If I committed murder,
there would have to be something in it for me.
All I say is that you’ve acted suspiciously from the start.
You’ve told two different stories.
You came here with a revolver.
Now you say you’ve lost it.
I have lost it.
That’s a likely story!
What do you think I’ve done with it?
I suggested myself that you should search me.
Oh! You haven’t got it on you. You’re too clever for that.
But you know where it is.
You mean I’ve cached it ready for the next time?
I shouldn’t be surprised.
Why don’t you use your brains, Blore?
If I’d wanted to, I could have shot the lot of you by this time,
pop, pop, pop, pop, pop.
Yes, but that’s not the big idea.
The crazy touch? My God, man, I’m sane enough!
The doctor says there are some lunatics
you’d never know were lunatics.
That’s true enough, I’d say.
We – we shouldn’t just sit here, doing nothing!
There must be something – surely, surely, there is
something that we can do? If we lit a bonfire –
In this weather?
It is, I am afraid, a question of time and patience.
The weather will clear. Then we can do something.
Light a bonfire, heliograph, signal.
A question of time – time? We can’t afford time.
We shall all be dead.
I think the precautions we have now adopted
will be adequate.
I tell you – we shall all be dead.
All but one – He’ll think up something else
he’s thinking now.
Poor Louise – what was her name – Clees?
Was it nerves that made you do her in, Doctor?
No, drink. I used to be a heavy drinker.
God help me, I was drunk when I operated
quite a simple operation. My hand shaking all over the place
I can remember her now – a big, heavy, countrified woman.
And I killed her!
So I was right – that’s how it was?
Sister knew, of course, but she was loyal to me
or to the hospital. I gave up drink.
gave it up altogether. I went in for a study of nervous diseases.
Very successfully.
One or two lucky shots.
Good results with one or two important women.
They talked to their friends.
For the last year or two I’ve been so busy
I’ve hardly known which way to turn.
I’d got to the top of the tree.
Until Mr. Unknown Owen – and down will come cradle and doctor and all.
Will you stop your damnable sneering and joking?
Gentlemen, gentlemen, please. We can’t afford to quarrel.
That’s okay by me. I apologize.
It’s this terrible inactivity that gets on my nerves.
We are adopting, I feel convinced, the only measures possible.
So long as we remain together, all within sight of each other,
a repetition of the tragedies that have occurred is
must be impossible.
We have all submitted to a search.
Therefore, we know that no man is armed
either with firearms or a knife.
Nor has any man got cyanide or any drug about his person.
If we remain, as I say, within sight of each other,
nothing can happen.
But we can’t go on like this – we shall need food – sleep –
That’s what I say.
Obviously, the murderer’s only chance is
to get one of us detached from the rest.
So long as we prevent that we are safe.
Safe – ?
You’re very silent, Vera?
There isn’t anything to say – I wonder what the time is.
It’s this awful waiting
Waiting for the hours to go by and yet feeling
that they may be the last. What is the time?
Half past eight.
Is that all?
Pretty awful light, this. How are the candles holding out?
There’s a whole packet.
Storm’s dying down a bit, what do you think, sir?
Perhaps. We mustn’t be too optimistic.
The murderer’s got everything on his side.
Even the weather seems to be falling in with his plans.
What about something to eat?
If you like, I’ll go out and open some tongue
and make some coffee. But you four stay here.
That’s right, isn’t it?
Not quite. You see, Miss Claythorne,
it might be inadvisable to eat or drink something
that you had prepared out of our sight.
Oh!  You don’t like me, do you?
It’s not a question of likes or dislikes.
There are very few tricks that will get past you, Sir Lawrence.
You know, if you won’t be offended at my saying so, you’re my fancy.
This is hardly the moment, Captain Lombard,
for any of us to indulge in the luxury of taking offense.
I don’t think it’s Blore.
I may be wrong, but I can’t feel you’ve
got enough imagination for this job.
All I can say is if you are the criminal,
I take my hat off to you for a damned fine actor.
Thank you, for nothing.
I don’t think it’s the Doctor.
I don’t believe he’s got the nerve.
You’ve got plenty of nerve. Vera.
On the other hand, you strike me as eminently sane.
Therefore, you’d only do murder
if you had a thoroughly good motive.
Thank you
I’ve thought of something.
Splendid. Animal, vegetable or mineral?
That man  says he’s a police officer.
But we’ve no proof of that.
He only said so after the gramophone record,
when his name had been given.
Before that he was pretending to be a South African millionaire.
Perhaps the police officer is another impersonation.
What do we know about him? Nothing at all.
He’s a policeman all right. Look at his feet.
That’s enough from you. Mr. Lombard.
Well, now we know where we are.
By the way, Miss Claythorne suspects you, Doctor.
Oh, yes, she does.
Haven’t you seen her shoot a dirty look from time to time?
It all works out quite prettily.
I suspect Sir Lawrence. Blore suspects me.
Armstrong suspects Blore.  What about you, sir?
Quiet early in the day, I formed a certain conclusion.
It seemed to me that everything that had occurred
pointed quite unmistakably to one person.
I am still of the same opinion.
Which one?
Well – no, I think it would be inadvisable
to mention that person’s name at the present time.
Inadvisable in the public interest?
Exactly.
What about the food idea?
No, no, let’s stay here. We’re safe here.
I can’t say I’m hungry.
I’m not ravenous myself.
You can go out and have a guzzle by yourself, Blore.
Tell you what. Suppose I go and bring in a tin of biscuits?
Good idea.
Oh, Blore.
Eh?
An unopened tin, Blore.
It’s only the wind – making the curtains rattle.
I wonder what happened to the bathroom curtain?
The one that Rogers missed.
By the wildest stretch of imagination,
I cannot see what any homicidal maniac
wants with a scarlet oilsilk curtain.
Things seem to have been disappearing.
Miss Brent lost a skein of knitting wool.
So the murderer, whoever he or she is, is a kleptomaniac too.
How does it go? “Five little soldier boys – ”
“Going in for law, One got in Chancery – ”
In chancery, but how could that apply?
Unless, of course –
Precisely, my dear young lady. That’s why I’m sitting right here.
Ah! But I’m casting you for the role of murderer – not victim.
The term can apply to a boxer.
Maybe we’ll start a free fight.
That seems to let you out, my dear.
That awful rhyme.
It keeps going round and round in my head.
I think I’ll remember it till I die.
Mr. Blore’s a long time.
I expect the big bad wolf has got him.
I have asked you once before to try and restrain
your rather peculiar sense of humor, Captain Lombard.
Sorry, sir. It must be a form of nervousness.
Put your hands up. Search him.
No, thank you.
Come now – you’ve had no dinner.
I couldn’t eat anything.
I warn you – Blore will wolf the lot.
I don’t see why you need be so funny about it.
Starving ourselves won’t do us any good. How are we off for cigarettes?
I haven’t got any.
I’ve run out too.
Fortunately, I’m a pipe smoker.
I’ve got a whole box upstairs in my suitcase. I’ll get them.
I could do with a cigarette myself.
See that you all stay where you are.
Not bad, these biscuits.
What are they, cheese?
Cheese and celery.
That girl ought to have had some.
Her nerves are in a bad state.
I don’t know that I’d agree with you there. Doctor.
Miss Claythorne strikes me as a very cool
and resourceful young lady – quite remarkably so.
So that’s your idea, is it? That she’s the guilty party?
Hardly likely – a woman!
You and I, Doctor, see women from slightly different angles.
 What does anyone say to a spot of whiskey?
Good idea, providing we tackle an unopened bottle.

Philip, Philip, where are you? I’ve lost you.
Here I am.
Why can’t we have some light?
It’s awful in the dark.
You don’t know where you are. You don’t know where anyone is.
It’s that damned draught on the stairs –
blowing all candles out. Here, I’ve got a lighter.
Where’s Doctor Armstrong?
I’m hunting for the matches.
Never mind matches – get some more candles.
I was horrified to death – It went right around my throat –
What did?
The window was open in my room.
It blew out the candle as I opened the door.
And then a long strand of seaweed touched my throat.
I thought, in the dark, that I was being strangled by a wet hand –
I don’t wonder you yelled.
Who hung the seaweed there?
I don’t know. But when I find out,
he’ll be sorry he was ever born.
Who’s that?
It’s all right, Miss Claythorne. It’s only me.
Here we are.  Who fired that shot?
He’s dead – Shot through the head –
One got in Chancery – and then there were four
Miss Claythorne.
Vera.
You got me out of the way.
You got me to go upstairs for cigarettes.
You put that seaweed there.
You did it all so that you could kill that helpless old man in the dark
you’re mad – all of you-crazy.
That’s why you wanted the red curtain and the knitting wood
– It was all planned – long ago-for that –
Oh, my God, let me get out of here –
// Act III, Scene II
“Three little soldier boys, Sitting in a row,
Thinking as they guzzle Who’s the next to go?’’
Oh, Philip!
That’s all right, Miss Claythorne.
I don’t minding joking on a full stomach.
I must say I was hungry.
But all the same, I don’t think I shall ever fancy tinned tongue again.
I was wanting that meal! I feel a new man.
We’d been nearly twenty-four hours without food.
That does lower the morale.
Somehow, in the daylight, everything seems different.
You mustn’t forget that there’s a
dangerous homicidal lunatic somewhere loose on this island.
Why is it one doesn’t feel jittery about it any more?
Because we know now, beyond any possible doubt, who it is, eh, Blore?
That’s right.
It was the uncertainty before –
looking at each other, wondering which.
I said all along it was Doctor Armstrong.
You did, my sweet, you did.
Until, of course, you went completely bats and
suspected us all.
It seems rather silly in the light of day.
Very silly.
Allowing it is Armstrong, what’s happened to him?
We know what he wants us to think has happened to him.
What exactly did you find?
One shoe – just one shoe – sitting prettily on the cliff edge.
Inference – Doctor Armstrong has gone
completely off his onion and committed suicide.
All very circumstantial – even to one little china soldier broken over
there in the doorway.
I think that was rather overdoing it.
A man wouldn’t think of doing that
if he was going to drown himself.
Quite so. But we’re fairly sure
he didn’t drown himself.
But he had to make it appear as though he were the seventh victim
all according to plan.
Suppose he really is dead?
I’m a bit suspicious of death without bodies.
How extraordinary to think that there are five dead bodies in there,
and we’ve been eating tinned tongue.
The delightful feminine disregard for the facts –
there are six dead bodies and they are not all in there.
Oh, no, no. She’s right. There are only five.
What about Mrs. Rogers?
I’ve counted her. She makes the fifth.
Now look here: Marston, one. Mrs. Rogers, two.
General MacKenzie, three. Rogers, four. Emily Brent, five, and Wargrave, six.
Seven, eight, nine – Armstrong, ten.
That’s right, old man. Sorry.
Don’t you think it would be an idea if we brought Mrs. Rogers
downstairs and shoved her in the morgue, too?
I’m a detective, not an undertaker.
For Heaven’s sake, stop talking about bodies.
The point is Armstrong murdered them.
We ought to have realized it was Armstrong straight away.
How do you think Armstrong got hold of your revolver?
Haven’t the slightest idea.
Tell me exactly, what happened in the night?
Well, after you threw a fit of hysterics and locked yourself
in your room, we all thought we’d better go to bed.
So we all went to bed
and locked ourselves in our rooms.
About an hour later, I heard someone pass my door.
I came out and tapped on Blore’s door.
He was there all right. Then I went to Armstrong’s room.
It was empty. That’s when I tapped on your door
and told you to sit tight – whatever happened.
Then I came down here. The window on the balcony was open –
and my revolver was lying just beside it.
But why the devil should Armstrong chuck that revolver away?
Don’t ask me – either an accident or he’s crazy.
Where do you think he is?
Lurking somewhere,
waiting to have a crack at one of us.
We ought to search the house.
What – and walk into an ambush?
 Oh – I never thought of that.
Are you quite sure you heard no one moving about
after we went out?
On, I imagined all sorts of things –
but nothing short of setting the house on fire
would have got me to unlock my door.
I see – just thoroughly suspicious.
 What’s the use of talking? What are we going to do?
If you ask me – do nothing. Sit tight and take no risks.
Look here, I want to go after that fellow.
What a dog of the bulldog breed you are, Blore.
By the way, between friends and without prejudice,
you did go in for that little spot of perjury, didn’t you?
 Well, I don’t suppose it makes any odds now.
Lendor was innocent, all right.
The gang squared me and between us
we put him away for a stretch.
Mind you, I wouldn’t admit it now if it wasn’t that –
You think we’re all in the same boat?
Well, I couldn’t admit it in front of Mr. Justice Wargrave, could I?
No, hardly.
I say, that fellow Seton, do you think he was innocent?
I’m quite sure of it.
Wargrave had a reason for wanting him out of the way.
Well, Blore, I’m delighted you’ve come off your virtuous perch.
I hope you made a tidy bit out of it?
Nothing like what I ought to have done.
They’re a mean lot, that Benny gang.
I got my promotion, though.
And Lendor got penal servitude and died in gaol.
I couldn’t tell he was going to die, could I?
No, that was your bad luck.
His, you mean.
Yours, too.
Because as a result of that fact you may get your life cut short unpleasantly soon.
What? Me? By Armstrong? I’ll watch it.
You’ll have to. Remember there are only three soldier boys there.
Well, what about you?
I shall be quite all right, thank you.
I’ve been in tight places before
and I’ve got out of them.
And I mean to get out of this one.
Besides, I’ve got a revolver.
Yes – that revolver. Now listen. You said you found it lying down there.
What’s to prove you haven’t had it all the time?
Same old gramophone record!
No room in your head for more than one idea at a time, is there?
No, but it’s a good idea.
And you’re sticking to it.
And I would have thought up a better story than that, if I were you.
I only wanted something simple that a policeman could understand.
What’s wrong with the police?
Nothing – now that you’ve left the force.
 Now look here, Captain Lombard, if you’re an honest man, as you pretend –
Oh, come, Blore, we’re neither of us honest.
If you’re telling the truth for once,
you ought to do the square thing and chuck that revolver down there.
Don’t be an ass.
I’ve said I’ll go through the house looking for Armstrong, haven’t I?
If I’m willing to do that, will you lend me that revolver?
No, I won’t. That revolver’s mine.
It’s my revolver and I’m sticking to it.
Then do you know what I’m beginning to think?
You’re not beginning to think it, you square-headed flattie.
You thought it last night,
and now you’ve gone back to your original idea.
I’m the one and only U.N. Unknown Owen. Is that it?
I won’t contradict you.
Well, think what you damned well please. But I warn you –
I think you are both behaving like a pair of children.
Sorry, teacher.
Of course, Captain Lombard isn’t the unknown.
The Unknown Owen is Armstrong – and I’ll tell you one very good proof of it.
Oh, what?
Think of the rhyme. “Four little soldier boys – going out to sea.
A red herring swallowed one, and then there were three.”
Don’t you see the subtlety of it? A red herring?
That’s Armstrong’s pretended suicide,
but it’s only a red herring – so really he isn’t dead!
That’s very ingenious.
To my mind, it’s absolute proof.
You see, it’s all mad because he’s mad.
He takes a queer, childish, crazy pleasure in sticking to the rhyme
and making everything happen in that way.
Dressing up the Judge, killing Rogers when he was chopping sticks;
using a hypodermic needle on Miss Brent,
when he might just as well have drugged her.
He’s got to make it all fit in.
And that might give us a pointer. Where do we go from here?
“Three little soldier boys walking in the zoo.
A big bear hugged one and then there were two.”
He’ll have a job with that one. There’s no zoo on this island!
I say, Captain Lombard, what about a nice bottle of beer?
Do stop thinking about your stomach, Blore.
This craving for food and drink
will be your undoing.
But there’s plenty of beer in the kitchen.
Yes, and if anyone wanted to get rid of you,
the first place they’d think putting a lethal dose would be
in a nice bottle of beer.
What’s that? A boat! A boat!
Oh, God!
Blore’s got his.
How?
A booby trap – all set –
a wire across the door attached to something above.
Is he?
Yes. Crushed. Head stove in.
That great bronze bear holding a clock, from the landing.
A bear? Oh, how ghastly!
It’s this awful childishness!
I know. God, what a fool Blore was!
And now there are two.
Yes, and we’ll have to be very careful of ourselves.
We shan’t do it.
He’ll get us
We’ll never get away from this island!
Oh, yes, we will, I’ve never been beaten yet.
Don’t you feel – that there’s someone – now – in this room –
watching us, watching and waiting?
That’s just nerves.
Then you do feel it?
No, I don’t.
Please, Philip, let’s get out of this house – anywhere.
Perhaps if that was a boat, they’ll see us.
All right. We’ll go to the top of the island
and wait for relief to come.
It’s sheer cliff on the far side
and we can see if anyone approaches from the house.
Anything’s better than staying here.
Won’t you be rather cold in that dress?
I’d be colder if I were dead.
Perhaps you’re right.  A quick reconnaissance.
Be careful, Philip – please!
I’m not Blore. There’s no window directly above.
Hullo, there’s something washed up on the rocks.
What?  It looks like a body.
You’d better wait in there. I’m going to have a look.
Armstrong – Armstrong’s body –
It’s Armstrong drowned – washed up at high water mark.
So there’s no one on the island – no one at all except us two.
Yes, Vera. Now we know where we are.
Now we know where we are?
A very pretty trick of yours, with that wire.
Quite neat.
Old Wargrave always knew you were dangerous.
You –
So you did drown that kid after all.
I didn’t! That’s where you’re wrong.
Please believe me. Please listen to me!
I’m listening. You’d better make it a good story.
It’s isn’t a story. It’s the truth.
I didn’t kill that child. It was someone else.
Who?
A man. Peter’s uncle. I was in love with him.
This is getting quite interesting.
Don’t sneer. It was hell. Absolute hell.
Peter was born after his father’s death.
If he’d been a girl, Hugh would have got everything.
Well-known tale of the wicked uncle.
Yes – he was wicked – and I didn’t know.
He said he loved me,
but that he was too poor to marry.
There was a rock far out that Peter was always wanting to swim to.
Of course, I wouldn’t let him. It was dangerous.
One day we were on the beach
and I had to go back to the house for something I’d forgotten.
When I got back to the rock, I looked down and saw Peter swimming out to the rock.
I knew he hadn’t a chance, the current had got him already.
I flew towards the beach and Hugh tried to stop me.
“Don’t be a fool,” he said.
“I told the little ass he could do it.”
Go on. This is interesting.
I pushed past him – he tried to stop me,
but I got away and rushed down.
I plunged into the sea and swam after Peter.
He’d gone before I could get to him.
And everything went off well at the inquest.
They called you a plucky girl,
and you kept discreetly quiet about Hugh’s part in the business.
Do you think anyone would have believed me? Besides, I couldn’t!
I really was in love with him.
Well, it’s a pretty story.
And then I suppose Hugh let you down?
Do you think I ever wanted to see him again?
You certainly are an accomplished liar, Vera.
Can’t you believe the truth when you hear it?
Who set the trap that killed Blore?
I didn’t – and Armstrong’s dead.
I’ve broken most of the Commandments in my time –
and I’m no saint. But there’s one thing
I won’t stand for and that’s murder.
You won’t stand for murder.
What about those natives you left to die in Africa?
That’s what’s so damn funny – I didn’t.
What do you mean?
For once – just once, mark you, I played the hero.
Risked my life to save the lives of my men,
left them my rifle and ammunition and all the food there was
and took a chance through the bush.
By the most incredible luck it came off
– but it wasn’t in time to save them.
And the rumor got around that I’d deliberately abandoned my men.
There’s life for you!
Do you expect me to believe that? Why, you actually admitted the whole thing.
I know. I got such a kick out of watching their faces.
You can’t fool me with a stupid lie like that.
Blast you!
Why didn’t I see it before?
It’s there in your face – the face of a killer –
You can’t fool me any longer.
Oh – Now!
You cunning little devil!
If you come one step nearer, I’ll shoot.
You – young, lovely, and quite, quite mad.
It’s all come true.
My Ten Little Soldiers plan – My rhyme – my rhyme –
Ah!
Silence in Court!
If there is any more noise, I shall have the Court cleared.
It’s all right, my dear. It’s all right.
Don’t be frightened. This is a Court of Justice.
You’ll get justice here. You thought I was a ghost.
You thought I was dead.
Armstrong said I was dead.
That was the clever part of my plan.
Said we’d trap the murderer.
We’d fix up my supposed death
so I should be free to spy upon the guilty one.
He thought it an excellent plan –
came out that night to meet me by the cliff
without any suspicion. I sent him over with a push – so easily.
He swallowed my red herring all right. You know, Vera Claythorne,
all my life I’ve wanted to take life –
yes, to take life. I’ve had to get what enjoyment I could
out of sentencing the guilty to death.
I always enjoyed that – but it wasn’t enough.
I wanted more – I wanted to do it myself with my own hands –
But I’m a Judge of the High Court.
I’ve got a sense of justice.
As between our Sovereign Lord the King and the prisoner at the Bar
– will true deliverance make – Guilty, my Lord.
Yes.  Guilty. You were all guilty, you know,
but the Law couldn’t touch you,
so I had to take the Law into my own hands.
Into my own hands! Silence in the Court!
Anthony Marston first. Then Mrs. Rogers.
Barbitone in the brandy. MacKenzie – stabbed.
Got Rogers with an axe when he was chopping sticks.
Doped Emily Brent’s coffee
so she couldn’t feel the hypodermic.
Booby trap for Blore.
Blore was a fool. I always knew it would be easy to get Blore.
Returning that revolver was a clever touch.
Made the end interesting.
I knew you two would suspect each other in the end.
The question was, who’d win out?
I banked on you, my dear. The female of the species.
Besides, it’s always more exciting to have a girl
at the end. Prisoner at the Bar,
have you anything to say why sentence should not be passed on you?
Vera Elizabeth Claythorne, I sentence you to death –
Stop! Stop! I’m not guilty! I’m not guilty!
Ah, they all say that. Must plead not guilty.
Unless, of course, you’re going all out for a verdict of insanity.
But you’re not mad.  I’m mad, but you’re not.
But I am innocent!! I swear it!
I never killed that child. I never wanted to kill him.
You’re a Judge. You know when a person is guilty
and when they’re innocent. I swear I’m telling the truth.
So you didn’t drown that boy after all?
Very interesting. But it doesn’t matter much now, does it?
What –
I can’t spoil my lovely rhyme.
My ten little soldier boys. You’re the last one.
One little solider boy left all alone. He went and hanged himself.
I must have my hanging – my hanging –
Philip – Philip –
It’s all right, darling. It’s all right.
I thought you were dead. I thought I’d killed you.
Thank God, women can’t shoot straight. At least, not straight enough.
I shall never forget this.
Oh, yes, you will. You know there’s another ending
to that Ten Little Soldier Boys rhyme:
“One little soldier boy, left all alone,
We got married – and then there were none!”
