// Act III, Scene I
“Five little soldier boys sitting in a row,
watching each other and waiting for the blow.”
New version up to date!
I hardly think this is a moment for facetiousness.
Have to relieve the gloom.
Damn that electric plant running down.
Let’s play a nice round game.
What about inventing one called
“Suspicions?” A suspects B., B. suspects C. – and so on.
Let’s start with Blore. It’s not hard to guess whom Blore suspects.
It sticks out a mile.
I’m your fancy, aren’t I, Blore?
I wouldn’t say no to that.
You’re quite wrong, you know.
Abstract justice isn’t my line.
If I committed murder,
there would have to be something in it for me.
All I say is that you’ve acted suspiciously from the start.
You’ve told two different stories.
You came here with a revolver.
Now you say you’ve lost it.
I have lost it.
That’s a likely story!
What do you think I’ve done with it?
I suggested myself that you should search me.
Oh! You haven’t got it on you. You’re too clever for that.
But you know where it is.
You mean I’ve cached it ready for the next time?
I shouldn’t be surprised.
Why don’t you use your brains, Blore?
If I’d wanted to, I could have shot the lot of you by this time,
pop, pop, pop, pop, pop.
Yes, but that’s not the big idea.
The crazy touch? My God, man, I’m sane enough!
The doctor says there are some lunatics
you’d never know were lunatics.
That’s true enough, I’d say.
We – we shouldn’t just sit here, doing nothing!
There must be something – surely, surely, there is
something that we can do? If we lit a bonfire –
In this weather?
It is, I am afraid, a question of time and patience.
The weather will clear. Then we can do something.
Light a bonfire, heliograph, signal.
A question of time – time? We can’t afford time.
We shall all be dead.
I think the precautions we have now adopted
will be adequate.
I tell you – we shall all be dead.
All but one – He’ll think up something else
he’s thinking now.
Poor Louise – what was her name – Clees?
Was it nerves that made you do her in, Doctor?
No, drink. I used to be a heavy drinker.
God help me, I was drunk when I operated
quite a simple operation. My hand shaking all over the place
I can remember her now – a big, heavy, countrified woman.
And I killed her!
So I was right – that’s how it was?
Sister knew, of course, but she was loyal to me
or to the hospital. I gave up drink.
gave it up altogether. I went in for a study of nervous diseases.
Very successfully.
One or two lucky shots.
Good results with one or two important women.
They talked to their friends.
For the last year or two I’ve been so busy
I’ve hardly known which way to turn.
I’d got to the top of the tree.
Until Mr. Unknown Owen – and down will come cradle and doctor and all.
Will you stop your damnable sneering and joking?
Gentlemen, gentlemen, please. We can’t afford to quarrel.
That’s okay by me. I apologize.
It’s this terrible inactivity that gets on my nerves.
We are adopting, I feel convinced, the only measures possible.
So long as we remain together, all within sight of each other,
a repetition of the tragedies that have occurred is
must be impossible.
We have all submitted to a search.
Therefore, we know that no man is armed
either with firearms or a knife.
Nor has any man got cyanide or any drug about his person.
If we remain, as I say, within sight of each other,
nothing can happen.
But we can’t go on like this – we shall need food – sleep –
That’s what I say.
Obviously, the murderer’s only chance is
to get one of us detached from the rest.
So long as we prevent that we are safe.
Safe – ?
You’re very silent, Vera?
There isn’t anything to say – I wonder what the time is.
It’s this awful waiting
Waiting for the hours to go by and yet feeling
that they may be the last. What is the time?
Half past eight.
Is that all?
Pretty awful light, this. How are the candles holding out?
There’s a whole packet.
Storm’s dying down a bit, what do you think, sir?
Perhaps. We mustn’t be too optimistic.
The murderer’s got everything on his side.
Even the weather seems to be falling in with his plans.
What about something to eat?
If you like, I’ll go out and open some tongue
and make some coffee. But you four stay here.
That’s right, isn’t it?
Not quite. You see, Miss Claythorne,
it might be inadvisable to eat or drink something
that you had prepared out of our sight.
Oh!  You don’t like me, do you?
It’s not a question of likes or dislikes.
There are very few tricks that will get past you, Sir Lawrence.
You know, if you won’t be offended at my saying so, you’re my fancy.
This is hardly the moment, Captain Lombard,
for any of us to indulge in the luxury of taking offense.
I don’t think it’s Blore.
I may be wrong, but I can’t feel you’ve
got enough imagination for this job.
All I can say is if you are the criminal,
I take my hat off to you for a damned fine actor.
Thank you, for nothing.
I don’t think it’s the Doctor.
I don’t believe he’s got the nerve. You’ve got plenty of nerve. Vera.
On the other hand, you strike me as eminently sane.
Therefore, you’d only do murder
if you had a thoroughly good motive.
Thank you
I’ve thought of something.
Splendid. Animal, vegetable or mineral?
That man  says he’s a police officer.
But we’ve no proof of that.
He only said so after the gramophone record,
when his name had been given.
Before that he was pretending to be a South African millionaire.
Perhaps the police officer is another impersonation.
What do we know about him? Nothing at all.
He’s a policeman all right. Look at his feet.
That’s enough from you. Mr. Lombard.
Well, now we know where we are.
By the way, Miss Claythorne suspects you, Doctor.
Oh, yes, she does.
Haven’t you seen her shoot a dirty look from time to time?
It all works out quite prettily.
I suspect Sir Lawrence. Blore suspects me.
Armstrong suspects Blore.  What about you, sir?
Quiet early in the day, I formed a certain conclusion.
It seemed to me that everything that had occurred
pointed quite unmistakably to one person.
I am still of the same opinion.
Which one?
Well – no, I think it would be inadvisable
to mention that person’s name at the present time.
Inadvisable in the public interest?
Exactly.
What about the food idea?
No, no, let’s stay here. We’re safe here.
I can’t say I’m hungry.
I’m not ravenous myself.
You can go out and have a guzzle by yourself, Blore.
Tell you what. Suppose I go and bring in a tin of biscuits?
Good idea.
Oh, Blore.
Eh?
An unopened tin, Blore.
It’s only the wind – making the curtains rattle.
I wonder what happened to the bathroom curtain?
The one that Rogers missed.
By the wildest stretch of imagination,
I cannot see what any homicidal maniac
wants with a scarlet oilsilk curtain.
Things seem to have been disappearing.
Miss Brent lost a skein of knitting wool.
So the murderer, whoever he or she is, is a kleptomaniac too.
How does it go? “Five little soldier boys – ”
“Going in for law, One got in Chancery – ”
In chancery, but how could that apply?
Unless, of course –
Precisely, my dear young lady. That’s why I’m sitting right here.
Ah! But I’m casting you for the role of murderer – not victim.
The term can apply to a boxer.
Maybe we’ll start a free fight.
That seems to let you out, my dear.
That awful rhyme.
It keeps going round and round in my head.
I think I’ll remember it till I die.
Mr. Blore’s a long time.
I expect the big bad wolf has got him.
I have asked you once before to try and restrain
your rather peculiar sense of humor, Captain Lombard.
Sorry, sir. It must be a form of nervousness.
Put your hands up. Search him.
No, thank you.
Come now – you’ve had no dinner.
I couldn’t eat anything.
I warn you – Blore will wolf the lot.
I don’t see why you need be so funny about it.
Starving ourselves won’t do us any good. How are we off for cigarettes?
I haven’t got any.
I’ve run out too.
Fortunately, I’m a pipe smoker.
I’ve got a whole box upstairs in my suitcase. I’ll get them.
I could do with a cigarette myself.
See that you all stay where you are.
Not bad, these biscuits.
What are they, cheese?
Cheese and celery.
That girl ought to have had some.
Her nerves are in a bad state.
I don’t know that I’d agree with you there. Doctor.
Miss Claythorne strikes me as a very cool
and resourceful young lady – quite remarkably so.
So that’s your idea, is it? That she’s the guilty party?
Hardly likely – a woman!
You and I, Doctor, see women from slightly different angles.
 What does anyone say to a spot of whiskey?
Good idea, providing we tackle an unopened bottle.

Philip, Philip, where are you? I’ve lost you.
Here I am.
Why can’t we have some light?
It’s awful in the dark.
You don’t know where you are. You don’t know where anyone is.
It’s that damned draught on the stairs –
blowing all candles out. Here, I’ve got a lighter.
Where’s Doctor Armstrong?
I’m hunting for the matches.
Never mind matches – get some more candles.
I was horrified to death – It went right around my throat –
What did?
The window was open in my room.
It blew out the candle as I opened the door.
And then a long strand of seaweed touched my throat.
I thought, in the dark, that I was being strangled by a wet hand –
I don’t wonder you yelled.
Who hung the seaweed there?
I don’t know. But when I find out,
he’ll be sorry he was ever born.
Who’s that?
It’s all right, Miss Claythorne. It’s only me.
Here we are.  Who fired that shot?
He’s dead – Shot through the head –
 One got in Chancery – and then there were four
Miss Claythorne.
Vera.
You got me out of the way.
You got me to go upstairs for cigarettes.
You put that seaweed there
You did it all so that you could kill that helpless old man in the dark
you’re mad – all of you-crazy.
That’s why you wanted the red curtain and the knitting wood
– It was all planned – long ago-for that –
Oh, my God, let me get out of here –
// Act III, Scene II
“Three little soldier boys, Sitting in a row,
Thinking as they guzzle Who’s the next to go?’’
Oh, Philip!
That’s all right, Miss Claythorne.
I don’t minding joking on a full stomach.
I must say I was hungry.
But all the same, I don’t think I shall ever fancy tinned tongue again.
I was wanting that meal! I feel a new man.
We’d been nearly twenty-four hours without food.
That does lower the morale.
Somehow, in the daylight. everything seems different.
You mustn’t forget that there’s a
dangerous homicidal lunatic somewhere loose on this island.
Why is it one doesn’t feel jittery about it any more?
Because we know now, beyond any possible doubt, who it is, eh, Blore?
That’s right.
It was the uncertainty before –
looking at each other, wondering which.
I said all along it was Doctor Armstrong.
You did, my sweet, you did.
Until, of course, you went completely bats and
suspected us all.
It seems rather silly in the light of day.
Very silly.
Allowing it is Armstrong, what’s happened to him?
We know what he wants us to think has happened to him.
What exactly did you find?
One shoe – just one shoe – sitting prettily on the cliff edge.
Inference – Doctor Armstrong has gone
completely off his onion and committed suicide.
All very circumstantial – even to one little china soldier broken over
there in the doorway.
I think that was rather overdoing it.
A man wouldn’t think of doing that
if he was going to drown himself.
Quite so. But we’re fairly sure
he didn’t drown himself.
But he had to make it appear as though he were the seventh victim
all according to plan.
Suppose he really is dead?
I’m a bit suspicious of death without bodies.
How extraordinary to think that there are five dead bodies in there,
and we’ve been eating tinned tongue.
The delightful feminine disregard for the facts –
there are six dead bodies and they are not all in there.
Oh, no, no. She’s right. There are only five.
What about Mrs. Rogers?
I’ve counted her. She makes the fifth.
Now look here: Marston, one. Mrs. Rogers, two.
General MacKenzie, three. Rogers, four. Emily Brent, five, and Wargrave, six.
Seven, eight, nine – Armstrong, ten.
That’s right, old man. Sorry.
Don’t you think it would be an idea if we brought Mrs. Rogers
downstairs and shoved her in the morgue, too?
I’m a detective, not an undertaker.
For Heaven’s sake, stop talking about bodies.
The point is Armstrong murdered them.
We ought to have realized it was Armstrong straight away.
How do you think Armstrong got hold of your revolver?
Haven’t the slightest idea.
Tell me exactly, what happened in the night?
Well, after you threw a fit of hysterics and locked yourself
in your room, we all thought we’d better go to bed.
So we all went to bed
and locked ourselves in our rooms.
About an hour later, I heard someone pass my door.
I came out and tapped on Blore’s door.
He was there all right. Then I went to Armstrong’s room.
It was empty. That’s when I tapped on your door
and told you to sit tight – whatever happened.
Then I came down here. The window on the balcony was open –
and my revolver was lying just beside it.
But why the devil should Armstrong chuck that revolver away?
Don’t ask me – either an accident or he’s crazy.
Where do you think he is?
Lurking somewhere,
waiting to have a crack at one of us.
We ought to search the house.
What – and walk into an ambush?
 Oh – I never thought of that.
Are you quite sure you heard no one moving about
after we went out?
On, I imagined all sorts of things –
but nothing short of setting the house on fire
would have got me to unlock my door.
I see – just thoroughly suspicious.
 What’s the use of talking? What are we going to do?
If you ask me – do nothing. Sit tight and take no risks.
Look here, I want to go after that fellow.
What a dog of the bulldog breed you are, Blore.
By the way, between friends and without prejudice,
you did go in for that little spot of perjury, didn’t you?
 Well, I don’t suppose it makes any odds now.
Lendor was innocent, all right.
The gang squared me and between us
we put him away for a stretch.
Mind you, I wouldn’t admit it now if it wasn’t that –
You think we’re all in the same boat?
Well, I couldn’t admit it in front of Mr. Justice Wargrave, could I?
No, hardly.
I say, that fellow Seton, do you think he was innocent?
I’m quite sure of it.
Wargrave had a reason for wanting him out of the way.
Well, Blore, I’m delighted you’ve come off your virtuous perch.
I hope you made a tidy bit out of it?
Nothing like what I ought to have done.
They’re a mean lot, that Benny gang.
I got my promotion, though.
And Lendor got penal servitude and died in gaol.
I couldn’t tell he was going to die, could I?
No, that was your bad luck.
His, you mean.
Yours, too.
Because as a result of that fact you may get your life cut short unpleasantly soon.
What? Me? By Armstrong? I’ll watch it.
You’ll have to. Remember there are only three soldier boys there.
Well, what about you?
I shall be quite all right, thank you.
I’ve been in tight places before
and I’ve got out of them.
And I mean to get out of this one.
Besides, I’ve got a revolver.
Yes – that revolver. Now listen. You said you found it lying down there.
What’s to prove you haven’t had it all the time?
Same old gramophone record!
No room in your head for more than one idea at a time, is there?
No, but it’s a good idea.
And you’re sticking to it.
And I would have thought up a better story than that, if I were you.
I only wanted something simple that a policeman could understand.
What’s wrong with the police?
Nothing – now that you’ve left the force.
 Now look here, Captain Lombard, if you’re an honest man, as you pretend –
Oh, come, Blore, we’re neither of us honest.
If you’re telling the truth for once,
you ought to do the square thing and chuck that revolver down there.
Don’t be an ass.
I’ve said I’ll go through the house looking for Armstrong, haven’t I?
If I’m willing to do that, will you lend me that revolver?
No, I won’t. That revolver’s mine.
It’s my revolver and I’m sticking to it.
Then do you know what I’m beginning to think?
You’re not beginning to think it, you square-headed flattie.
You thought it last night,
and now you’ve gone back to your original idea.
I’m the one and only U.N. Unknown Owen. Is that it?
I won’t contradict you.
Well, think what you damned well please. But I warn you –
I think you are both behaving like a pair of children.
Sorry, teacher.
Of course, Captain Lombard isn’t the unknown.
The Unknown Owen is Armstrong – and I’ll tell you one very good proof of it.
Oh, what?
Think of the rhyme. “Four little soldier boys – going out to sea.
A red herring swallowed one, and then there were three.”
Don’t you see the subtlety of it? A red herring?
That’s Armstrong’s pretended suicide,
but it’s only a red herring – so really he isn’t dead!
That’s very ingenious.
To my mind, it’s absolute proof.
You see, it’s all mad because he’s mad.
He takes a queer, childish, crazy pleasure in sticking to the rhyme
and making everything happen in that way.
Dressing up the Judge, killing Rogers when he was chopping sticks;
using a hypodermic needle on Miss Brent,
when he might just as well have drugged her.
He’s got to make it all fit in.
And that might give us a pointer. Where do we go from here?
“Three little soldier boys walking in the zoo.
A big bear hugged one and then there were two.”
He’ll have a job with that one. There’s no zoo on this island!
I say, Captain Lombard, what about a nice bottle of beer?
Do stop thinking about your stomach, Blore.
This craving for food and drink
will be your undoing.
But there’s plenty of beer in the kitchen.
Yes, and if anyone wanted to get rid of you,
the first place they’d think putting a lethal dose would be
in a nice bottle of beer.
What’s that? A boat! A boat!
Oh, God!
Blore’s got his.
How?
A booby trap – all set – a wire across the door attached to something above.
Is he?
Yes. Crushed. Head stove in.
That great bronze bear holding a clock, from the landing.
A bear? Oh, how ghastly!
It’s this awful childishness!
I know. God, what a fool Blore was!
And now there are two.
Yes, and we’ll have to be very careful of ourselves.
We shan’t do it.
He’ll get us
We’ll never get away from this island!
Oh, yes, we will, I’ve never been beaten yet.
Don’t you feel – that there’s someone – now – in this room –
watching us, watching and waiting?
That’s just nerves.
Then you do feel it?
No, I don’t.
Please, Philip, let’s get out of this house – anywhere.
Perhaps if that was a boat, they’ll see us.
All right. We’ll go to the top of the island
and wait for relief to come.
It’s sheer cliff on the far side
and we can see if anyone approaches from the house.
Anything’s better than staying here.
Won’t you be rather cold in that dress?
I’d be colder if I were dead.
Perhaps you’re right.  A quick reconnaissance.
Be careful, Philip – please!
I’m not Blore. There’s no window directly above.
Hullo, there’s something washed up on the rocks.
What?  It looks like a body.
You’d better wait in there. I’m going to have a look.
Armstrong – Armstrong’s body –
It’s Armstrong drowned – washed up at high water mark.
So there’s no one on the island – no one at all except us two.
Yes, Vera. Now we know where we are.
Now we know where we are?
A very pretty trick of yours, with that wire.
Quite neat.
Old Wargrave always knew you were dangerous.
You –
So you did drown that kid after all.
I didn’t! That’s where you’re wrong.
Please believe me. Please listen to me!
I’m listening. You’d better make it a good story.
It’s isn’t a story. It’s the truth.
I didn’t kill that child. It was someone else.
Who?
A man. Peter’s uncle. I was in love with him.
This is getting quite interesting.
Don’t sneer. It was hell. Absolute hell.
Peter was born after his father’s death.
If he’d been a girl, Hugh would have got everything.
Well-known tale of the wicked uncle.
Yes – he was wicked – and I didn’t know.
He said he loved me,
but that he was too poor to marry.
There was a rock far out that Peter was always wanting to swim to.
Of course, I wouldn’t let him. It was dangerous.
One day we were on the beach
and I had to go back to the house for something I’d forgotten.
When I got back to the rock, I looked down and saw Peter swimming out to the rock.
I knew he hadn’t a chance, the current had got him already.
I flew towards the beach and Hugh tried to stop me.
“Don’t be a fool,” he said.
“I told the little ass he could do it.”
Go on. This is interesting.
I pushed past him – he tried to stop me,
but I got away and rushed down.
I plunged into the sea and swam after Peter.
He’d gone before I could get to him.
And everything went off well at the inquest.
They called you a plucky girl,
and you kept discreetly quiet about Hugh’s part in the business.
Do you think anyone would have believed me? Besides, I couldn’t!
I really was in love with him.
Well, it’s a pretty story.
And then I suppose Hugh let you down?
Do you think I ever wanted to see him again?
You certainly are an accomplished liar, Vera.
Can’t you believe the truth when you hear it?
Who set the trap that killed Blore?
I didn’t – and Armstrong’s dead. I’ve broken most of the Commandments in my time –
and I’m no saint. But there’s one thing
I won’t stand for and that’s murder.
You won’t stand for murder.
What about those natives you left to die in Africa?
That’s what’s so damn funny – I didn’t.
What do you mean?
For once – just once, mark you, I played the hero.
Risked my life to save the lives of my men,
left them my rifle and ammunition and all the food there was
and took a chance through the bush.
By the most incredible luck it came off
– but it wasn’t in time to save them.
And the rumor got around that I’d deliberately abandoned my men.
There’s life for you!
Do you expect me to believe that? Why, you actually admitted the whole thing.
I know. I got such a kick out of watching their faces.
You can’t fool me with a stupid lie like that.
Blast you!
Why didn’t I see it before?
It’s there in your face – the face of a killer –
You can’t fool me any longer.
Oh – Now!
You cunning little devil!
If you come one step nearer, I’ll shoot.
You – young, lovely, and quite, quite mad.
It’s all come true.
My Ten Little Soldiers plan – My rhyme – my rhyme –
Ah!
Silence in Court!
If there is any more noise, I shall have the Court cleared.
It’s all right, my dear. It’s all right.
Don’t be frightened. This is a Court of Justice.
You’ll get justice here. You thought I was a ghost.
You thought I was dead.
Armstrong said I was dead.
That was the clever part of my plan.
Said we’d trap the murderer.
We’d fix up my supposed death
so I should be free to spy upon the guilty one.
He thought it an excellent plan –
came out that night to meet me by the cliff
without any suspicion. I sent him over with a push – so easily.
He swallowed my red herring all right. You know, Vera Claythorne,
all my life I’ve wanted to take life –
yes, to take life. I’ve had to get what enjoyment I could
out of sentencing the guilty to death.
I always enjoyed that – but it wasn’t enough.
I wanted more – I wanted to do it myself with my own hands –
But I’m a Judge of the High Court.
I’ve got a sense of justice.
As between our Sovereign Lord the King and the prisoner at the Bar
– will true deliverance make – Guilty, my Lord.
Yes.  Guilty. You were all guilty, you know,
but the Law couldn’t touch you,
so I had to take the Law into my own hands.
Into my own hands! Silence in the Court!
Anthony Marston first. Then Mrs. Rogers.
Barbitone in the brandy. MacKenzie – stabbed.
Got Rogers with an axe when he was chopping sticks.
Doped Emily Brent’s coffee
so she couldn’t feel the hypodermic.
Booby trap for Blore.
Blore was a fool. I always knew it would be easy to get Blore.
Returning that revolver was a clever touch.
Made the end interesting.
I knew you two would suspect each other in the end.
The question was, who’d win out?
I banked on you, my dear. The female of the species.
Besides, it’s always more exciting to have a girl
at the end. Prisoner at the Bar,
have you anything to say why sentence should not be passed on you?
Vera Elizabeth Claythorne, I sentence you to death –
Stop! Stop! I’m not guilty! I’m not guilty!
Ah, they all say that. Must plead not guilty.
Unless, of course, you’re going all out for a verdict of insanity.
But you’re not mad.  I’m mad, but you’re not.
But I am innocent!! I swear it!
I never killed that child. I never wanted to kill him.
You’re a Judge. You know when a person is guilty
and when they’re innocent. I swear I’m telling the truth.
So you didn’t drown that boy after all?
Very interesting. But it doesn’t matter much now, does it?
What –
I can’t spoil my lovely rhyme.
My ten little soldier boys. You’re the last one.
One little solider boy left all alone. He went and hanged himself.
I must have my hanging – my hanging –
Philip – Philip –
It’s all right, darling. It’s all right.
I thought you were dead. I thought I’d killed you.
Thank God, women can’t shoot straight. At least, not straight enough.
I shall never forget this.
Oh, yes, you will. You know there’s another ending
to that Ten Little Soldier Boys rhyme:
“One little soldier boy, left all alone,
We got married – and then there were none!”
