First lot to be arriving in Jim’s boat.
Another lot not far behind.
Good evening, Fred.
Good evening, Mrs. Rogers.
Is that the boat?
Yes.
Oh, dear, already?
Have you remembered everything?
I think so. Lemons. Slip soles. Cream. Eggs
tomatoes and butter. That’s all, wasn’t it?
That’s right. So much to do I don’t know where to start.
No maids till the morning,
and all these guests arriving today.
Calm down, Ethel, everything’s shipshape now.
Looks nice, don’t it, Fred?
Looks neat enough for me.
Kind of bare,
but rich folks like places bare, it seems.
Rich folks is queer.
And he was a queer sort of gentleman
as built this place.
Spent a wicked lot of money on it he did,
and then gets tired of it
and puts the whole thing up for sale.
Beats me why the Owens wanted to buy it,
living on a island.
Oh, come off it, Ethel,
and take all that stuff out into the kitchen.
They’ll be here any minute now.
Making that steep climb
an excuse for a drink, I suppose.
Like some others I know.
That be young Jim. I’ll be getting along.
There’s two gentlemen arriving by car, I understand.
I shall want at least five loaves in the morning
and eight pints of milk, remember.
Right.
Don’t forget the oil for the engine, Fred.
I ought to charge up tomorrow,
or I’ll have the lights running down.
‘Twas held up on railway. It’s at the station now.
I’ll bring it across the first thing tomorrow.
And give a hand with the luggage, will you?
Right.
I forgot to give you the list of guests, Tom.
Thanks, old girl. H’mm, doesn’t look a very classy lot to me.
Miss Claythorne. She’ll probably be the secretary.
I don’t hold much with secretaries.
Worse than hospital nurses,
and them giving themselves airs and graces
and looking down on the servants.
Oh, stop grousing, Ethel, and cut along
to that lovely up-to-date expensive kitchen of yours.
Too many new-fangled gadgets for my fancy!
So this is it!
How perfectly lovely!
Miss Claythorne!
You’re – Rogers?
Yes. Good evening, Miss.
Good evening, Rogers.
Will you bring up my luggage and Captain Lombard’s?
Very good, Miss.
You’ve been here before?
No – but I’ve heard a lot about the place.
From Mr. and Mrs. Owen?
No, old Johnny Brewer, a pal of mine,
built this house – it’s a sad and poignant story.
A love story?
Yes, ma’am – the saddest of all.
He was a wealthy old boy and fell in love
with the famous Lily Logan – married her –
bought the island and built this place for her.
Sounds most romantic.
Poor Johnny! He thought by cutting her off from the rest of the world –
without even a telephone as means of communication – he could hold her.
But of course the fair Lily tired of her ivory tower – and escaped?
U’huh. Johnny went back to Wall Street,
made a few more millions, and the place was sold.
And here we are.

Well, I ought to find Mrs. Owen.
The others will be up in a minute.
It would be very rude to leave me here all by myself.
Would it? Oh, well, I wonder where she is?
She’ll come along when she’s ready.
While we’re waiting, do you think I could have a drink?
I’m very dry.
Of course you could.
It’s certainly warm after that steep climb.
What’s yours?
No, thanks, not for me – not on duty.
A good secretary is never off duty.
Really. This is exciting!
What?
All this. The smell of the sea – the gulls – the beach
and this lovely house. I am going to enjoy myself.
I think you are. I think we both are.
Here’s to you – you’re very lovely.
Where is Mrs. Owen?
Mr. and Mrs. Owen won’t be down from London until tomorrow, Miss.
I thought you knew.
Tomorrow – but –
I’ve got a list here of the guests expected, Miss,
if you would like to have it.
The second boatload’s just arriving.
Thank you.
How awful – I say, you will be sweet and help me,
won’t you?
I won’t move from your side.
Thank you.
It seems silly to have brought only us in the first boat
and all the rest in the second.
That, I’m afraid, was design, not accident.
Design? What do you mean?
I suggested to the boatman that there was no need to wait for any more passengers.
That and five shillings soon started up the engine.
Oh, you shouldn’t have done that!
Well, they’re not a very exciting lot, are they?
I thought the young man was rather nice-looking.
Callow. Definitely callow. And very, very young.
I suppose you think a man in his thirties is more attractive.
I don’t think, my darling – I know.
Wizard place you’ve got here.
I’m Mrs. Owen’s secretary.
Mrs. Owen has been detained in London, I’m afraid,
and won’t be down until tomorrow.
Oh, too bad.
May I introduce Captain Lombard, Mr. – er –
Marston, Anthony Marston.
Have a drink?
Oh, thank you.
What will you have? Gin, whiskey, sherry – ?
Whiskey, I think.
Wonderful place you have here.
I’m Mrs. Owen’s secretary.
Mrs. Owen has been detained in London, I’m afraid,
and won’t be down until tomorrow.
Say when!
Oh, wizard!
How are you?
My name’s Lombard. Have a drink, Mr. –
Davis. Davis is the name.
Mr. Davis – Mr. Marston!
How are you, Mr. Marston? Pleased to meet you.
Thanks, Mr. Lombard. I don’t mind if I do.
Bit of a stiff climb up here.
But whew! What a view and what a height!
Reminds me of South Africa, this place.
Does it? What part?
Oh – er – Natal, Durban, you know.
Really?
Well, here’s to temperance. Do you – er – know South Africa?
Me? No.
That’s where I come from. That’s my Natal state
Interesting country. I should think.
Finest country in the world, sir.
Gold, silver, diamonds, oranges, everything a man could want.
Talk about a land flowing with beer and skittles.
Er – How do you do?
General MacKenzie, isn’t it? I’m Mrs. Owen’s secretary.
Mrs. Owen has been detained in London, I’m afraid,
and won’t be down until tomorrow.
Can I introduce Captain Lombard – Mr. Marston and Mr. –
Davis, Davis is the name.
Whiskey and soda, sir?
Er – thanks. You in the service?
Formerly in the King’s African Rifles. Too tame for me in peace time.
I chucked it.
Pity.
When.
Where is Mrs. Owen?
Miss Brent, isn’t it? I’m Mrs. Owen’s secretary.
Mrs. Owen has been detained in London, I’m afraid.
And won’t be down until tomorrow.
Indeed. Extraordinary. Did she miss the train?
I expect so. Won’t you have something?
May I introduce Captain Lombard – General MacKenzie –
Mr. Marston. I think you all met on the boat. And Mr. –
Davis, Davis is the name. May I take your case?
Do let me give you a drink? A dry martini? A glass of sherry?
Whiskey and soda?
I never touch alcohol.
You never touched alcohol!
I suppose you know, young man.
that you left us standing there on the wharf?
I’m afraid, Miss Brent, I was to blame for that. I wanted to –
It seems to me most extraordinary that Mrs. Owen
should not be here to receive her guests.
Perhaps she’s the kind of person who just can’t help missing trains.
That’s what I reckon she is.
Not at all. Mrs. Owen isn’t the least like that.
Perhaps it was her husband’s fault.
She hasn’t got a husband.
I should like to go to my room.
Of course. I’ll take you there.
You’ll find Mrs. Rogers upstairs, Miss.
She will show you the room.
I’m afraid our host and hostess haven’t arrived, sir.
My name’s Lombard.
Mine’s Wargrave. How do you do?
How do you do? Have a drink, sir?
Yes, please. A whiskey.
How are you? Davis, Davis is the name.
I say, wonderful place you’ve got here. Quite unique.
As you say – quite unique.
Your drink, sir.
Old Badger Berkely rolled up yet?
Who did you say?
Badger Berkely. He roped me in for this show.
When’s he coming?
I don’t think he is coming.
Nobody of the name of Berkely.
The dirty old double-crosser! He’s let me down.
Well, it’s a pretty wizard island.
Rather a wizard girl, that secretary.
She ought to liven things up a bit.
I say, old man, what about dressing for dinner
if there’s time?
Sounds good. Let’s go and explore.
How wizard!
Things are a bit at sixes and sevens
with the Owens not turning up.
Tricky, what? I say, wizard place for a holiday, what?
Aren’t you going to sit down?
Well, to tell you the truth, you seem to be in my chair.
I am sorry. I didn’t realize you were one of the family.
Well, it’s not that exactly.
To tell you the truth, I’ve never been here before.
But you see I live at the Benton Club – have for the last ten years.
And my seat is just about there.
Can’t get used to sitting anywhere else.
It becomes a bit of a habit.
Yes, it certainly does. Thank you
Well, it’s not quite as good as the Club’s, but it’s a nice chair.
To tell you the truth.
I was a bit surprised when I got this invitation.
Haven’t had anything of the kind for well over four years.
Very nice of them, I thought.
Can I have your keys, sir?
Is Lady Constance Culmington expected here, can you tell me?
Lady Constance Culmington? I don’t think so, sir.
Unless she’s coming down with Mr. and Mrs. Owen.
Oh.
Allow me, sir. Can I have your keys, sir?
No, thanks. I’ll unpack for myself.
Dinner is at eight o’clock, sir. Shall I show you to your room?
Please.
Here you are, sir. I’ll call Rogers.
How are you? Davis. Davis is the name.
Mine's Armstrong.
Doctor Armstrong, I believe.
Yes.
//STUK ONTBREEKT







It’ll be spoilt anyway, I expect.
Everybody’s going to be late. Wasted on them, anyway.
Thank goodness, I didn’t make a souffle.

Oh, dinner won’t be a minute, Miss.
Just a question of dishing up.
Is everything all right, Rogers? Can you manage between the two of you?
Yes, thank you, Miss. The Missus talks a lot, but she gets it done.
What a lovely evening!
Yes, indeed. The weather seems very settled.
How plainly one can hear the sea.
A pleasant sound.
Hardly a breath of wind – and deliciously warm.
Not like England at all.
I should have thought you might feel a little
uncomfortable in that dress.
Oh, no.
It’s rather tight, isn’t it?
Oh, I don’t think so.
You’ll excuse me, my dear, but you’re a young girl
and you’ve got your living to earn.
Yes?
A well-bred woman doesn’t like her secretary
to appear flashy.
It looks, you know, as though you were trying to attract
the attention of the opposite sex.
And would you say I do attract them?
That’s beside the point.
A girl who deliberately sets out to get the attention of men
won’t be likely to keep her job long.
Ah! Surely that depends on who she’s working for?
Really, Miss Claythorne!
Aren’t you being a little unkind?
Young people nowadays behave in the most disgusting fashion.
Disgusting?
Yes. Low-backed evening dresses.
Lying half naked on beaches.
All this so-called sunbathing.
An excuse for immodest conduct, nothing more.
Familiarity! Christian names – drinking cocktails!
And look at the young men nowadays.
Decadent! Look at that young Marston. What good is he?
And that Captain Lombard!
What do you object to in Captain Lombard?
I should say he was a man who’d led
a very varied and interesting life.
The man’s an adventurer.
All this younger generation is no good – no good at all.
You don’t like youth – I see.
What do you mean?
I was just remarking that you don’t like young people.
And is there any reason why I should, pray?
Oh, no
but it seems to me that you must miss an awful lot.
You’re very impertinent.
I’m sorry, but that’s just what I think.
The world will never improve
until we stamp out immodesty.
Quite pathological.
What did you say?
Nothing.
What about the old boy –
He looks rather like a tortoise, don’t you think so?
All judges look like tortoises.
They have that venomous way of darting their heads,
in and out.
Mr. Justice Wargrave is no exception.
I hadn’t realized he was a judge.
Oh, yes. He’s probably been responsible
for sending more innocent people to their death
than anyone in England.
Hello, you. Do you two know each other?
Mr. Armstrong – Miss Claythorne.
Armstrong and I have just decided that the old boy –
Yes, I heard you and so did he, I think.
Oh, Sir Lawrence.
Miss Brent, isn’t it?
There’s something I want to ask you.
Will you come out here?
A remarkably fine night!
Absolutely wizard car – a super-charged Sports Varletti Carlotta.
You don’t see many of them on the road.
I can get over a hundred out of her.
Did you come from London?
Yes, two hundred and eight miles and
I did it in a bit over four hours.
Too many cars on the road, though, to keep it up.
Touched ninety going over Salisbury Plain. Not too bad, eh?
I think you passed me on the road.
Oh, yes?
You nearly drove me into the ditch.
Did I? Sorry.
If I’d seen your number, I’d have reported you.
But you were footling along in the middle of the road.
Footling? Me footling?
Oh, well, what about a drink?
Good idea.Will you have one, Miss Claythorne?
No, thank you.
Good evening, Mrs. Owen.
Why Mrs. Owen?
You’d make the most attractive wife for any wealthy businessman.
Do you always flirt so outrageously?
Always.
Oh! Well, now we know.
Tell me, what’s old Miss Brent talking to the Judge about?
She tried to buttonhole him upstairs.
I don’t know.
Funny – she seemed so definite that there wasn’t a Mr. Owen.
You don’t think that Mrs. Owen –
I mean that there isn’t – that they aren’t –
What, married you mean?
Damn shame we don’t know each other.
I could have given you a lift down.
Yes, that would have been grand.
Like to show you what I can do across Salisbury Plain.
Tell you what – maybe we can drive back together?
But I -
But it seems damn silly. I’ve got an empty car.
Yes, but she likes the way she’s going back and –
Look! Aren’t they sweet? Those ten little china soldiers.
Oh, and there’s the old nursery rhyme.
What are you talking about? What figures? What nursery rhyme?
“Ten little soldier boys going out to dine.
One choked his little self and then there were nine – ”
“Nine little soldier boys sat up very late.
One overslept himself and then there were eight.”
“Eight little soldier boys traveling in Devon.
One got left behind and then there were seven – ”
Ladies and Gentlemen, silence, please!
You are charged with these indictments:
that you did respectively and at diverse times commit the following:
Edward Armstrong, that you did cause the death of Louisa Mary Clees.
William Henry Blore, that you brought about the death of
James Stephen Lendor.
Emily Caroline Brent, that you were responsible
for the death of Beatrice Taylor.
Vera Elizabeth Claythorne, that you killed Peter Ogilvie Hamilton.
Philip Lombard, that you were guilty of the deaths
of twenty-one men, members of an East African tribe.
John Gordon MacKenzie, that you sent your wife’s lover,
Arthur Richmond, to his death.
Anthony James Marston, that you were guilty of the murder
of John and Lucy Combes.
Thomas Rogers and Ethel Rogers, that you brought about
the death of Jennifer Brady.
Lawrence John Wargrave, that you were guilty
of the murder of Edward Seton.
Prisoners at the bar, have you anything to say in your defense?
It’s nothing much. She’s fainted, that’s all.
She’ll be round in a minute.
Get some brandy.
Rogers, get some brandy.
Who was that speaking? It sounded –
What’s going on here? What kind of practical joke was that?
Where the devil did that voice come from?

Here we are.
You are charged with these indictments –
Turn it off! Turn it off! It’s horrible!
A disgraceful and heartless practical joke.
So you think it’s a joke, do you?
What else could it be?
At the moment I’m not prepared to give an opinion.
Who the devil turned it on, though? And set it going?
We must enquire into that.
Oh, dear me! Oh, dear me!
Allow me, Madam. Allow me, sir.
If I speak to her – Ethel – Ethel – It’s all right.
All right, do you hear? Pull yourself together.
You’ll be all right now, Mrs. Rogers. Just a nasty turn.
Did I faint, sir?
Yes.
It was the voice – the awful voice – like a judgment –
Where’s the brandy?
Drink this, Mrs. Rogers.
I’m all right now. It just – gave me a turn.
Of course it did. Gave me a turn too.
Wicked lies it was. I’d like to know –
Who was it put that record on the gramophone? Was it you, Rogers?
I was just obeying orders, sir, that’s all.
Whose orders?
Mr. Owen’s.
Let me get this quite clear.
Mr. Owen’s orders were – what exactly?
I was to put a record on the gramophone in the study.
I’d find the records in the drawer in there.
I was to start with that one, sir.
I thought it was just to give you all some music.
A very remarkable story.
It’s the truth, sir. Before Heaven, it’s the truth.
I didn’t know what it was – not for a moment.
It had a name on it. I thought it was just a piece of music.
Is there a title?
A title? Yes, sir. It’s entitled “Swan Song.”
The whole thing is preposterous – preposterous!
Slinging accusations about like this.
Something must be done about it. This fellow Owen, whoever he is –
That’s just it. Who is he?
That is exactly what we must go into very carefully.
I should suggest that you get your wife to bed, Rogers.
Then come back here.
Yes, sir.
I’ll give you a hand.
 Will she be all right, Doctor?
Yes, quite all right.
Don’t know about you, sir,
but I feel I need another drink.
I agree.
I’ll get them.
Preposterous – that’s what it is – preposterous.
Whiskey for you, Sir Lawrence?
 I should like a glass of water, please.
Yes, I’ll get it. I’ll have a little whiskey too.
She’ll be all right.
I’ve given her a sedative.
Now, then, Doctor, you’ll want a drink after all this.
No, thank you. I never touch it.
Oh, so you said. You have this one, General?
Now, then, Rogers, we must get to the bottom of this.
Tell us what you know about Mr. Owen.
He owns this place, sir.
I am aware of that fact. What I want you to tell me is what you yourself
know about the man.
I can’t say, sir.
You see, I’ve never seen him.
What d’you mean, you’ve never seen him?
We’ve only been here just under a week, sir, my wife and I.
We were engaged by letter through a registry office.
The Regina, in Plymouth.
That’s a high-class firm. We can check on that.
Have you got the letter?
The letter engaging us? Yes, sir.
Go on with your story.
We arrived here like the letter said, on the 4th.
Everything was in order, plenty of food in stock and everything very nice.
Just needed dusting and that.
What next?
Nothing, sir. That is.
We got orders to prepare the rooms
for a house party – eight.
Then yesterday, by the morning post, I received another letter
saying Mr. and Mrs. Owen might be detained and,
if so, we was to do the best we could,
and it gave the instructions about dinner
and putting on the gramophone record.
Here it is, sir.
Hmm. Headed Ritz Hotel and typewritten.
Coronation machine Number Five. Quite new.
No defects. Ensign paper – most common make.
We shan’t get much out of this.
We might try it for fingerprints,
but it’s been handled too much.
Quite the little detective.
Got some fancy Christian names, hasn’t he?
Ulick Norman Owen. Quite a mouthful.
I am obliged to you,
Mr. Marston. You have drawn my attention to a curious and suggestive point.
I think the time has come for all of us
to pool our information.
It would be well for everybody to come forward
with all the information they have regarding our unknown host.
We are all his guests.
I think it would be profitable if each one of us
were to explain exactly how that came about.
There’s something very peculiar about all this.
I received a letter with a signature
that was not very easy to read.
It purported to be from a woman whom I had met
at a certain summer resort two or three years ago.
I took the name to be Ogden.
I am quite certain that I have never met or become friendly
with anyone of the name of Owen.
Have you got that letter, Miss Brent?
Yes. I will fetch it for you.
Miss Claythorne?
I never actually met Mrs. Owen.
I wanted a holiday post and I applied to a
secretarial agency.
Miss Grenfell’s in London.
I was offered this post and accepted.
And you were never interviewed by your prospective employer?
No. This is the letter.
“Soldier Island, Sticklehaven, Devon.
I have received your name from Miss Grenfell’s Agency.
I understand she knows you personally.
I shall be glad to pay you the salary you ask,
and shall expect you to take up your duties on August 8th.
The train is the 12:10 from Paddington
and you will be met at Oakbridge Station.
I enclose five pounds for expenses.
Yours truly, Una Nancy Owen”
Mr. Marston?
Don’t actually know the Owens.
Got a wire from a pal of mine, Badger Berkely.
Told me to roll up here.
Surprised me a bit because I had an idea
the old horse had gone to Norway.
I haven’t got the wire.
Thank you. Doctor Armstrong?
In the circumstances, I
think I may admit that my visit here was professional.
Mr. Owen wrote me that he was worried
about his wife’s health – her nerves, to be precise.
He wanted a report without her being alarmed.
He therefore suggested that my visit should be regarded as
that of an ordinary guest.
You had no previous acquaintance with the family?
No.
But you had no hesitation in obeying the summons?
A colleague of mine was mentioned
and a very handsome fee was suggested.
I was due for a holiday, anyway.
“Dear Miss Brent: I do hope you remember me.
We were together at Bell Haven Guest House
in August some years ago
and we seemed to have so much in common.
I am starting a guest house of my own on an island off the coast of Devon.
I think there is really an opening for a place
where there is good plain English cooking,
and a nice old-fashioned type of person.
None of this nudity and gramophones half the night.
I shall be very glad if you could see your way to spending
your summer holiday on Soldier Island – as my guest, of course.
I suggest August 8th, 12:40 from Paddington to Oakbridge.
Yours sincerely, U.N.”
Hmm. Yes, the signature is slightly ambiguous.
I like the nudity touch!
Here is my own decoy letter.
From an old friend of mine,
Lady Constance Culmington. She writes in her usual
vague, incoherent way, and urges me to join her here
and refers to her host and hostess in the vaguest of terms.
Look here, I’ve just thought of something
In a minute.
But I –
We will take one thing at a time,
if you don’t mind, Captain Lombard. General MacKenzie?
Got a letter – from this fellow
Owen – thought I must have met him sometime at the Club –
mentioned some old cronies of mine who were to be here –
hoped I’d excuse informal invitation.
Haven’t kept the letter, I’m afraid.
And you, Captain Lombard?
Same sort of thing. Invitation mentioning mutual friends.
I haven’t kept the letter either.
Just now we had a somewhat disturbing experience. An apparently
disembodied voice spoke to us all by name,
uttering certain definite accusations against us.
We will deal with those accusations presently.
At the moment I am interested in a minor point.
Amongst the names received was that of
William Henry Blore. But as far as we know,
there is no one named Blore amongst us.
The name of Davis was not mentioned.
What have you to say about that, Mr. Davis?
Cat’s out of the bag, it seems.
I suppose I’d better admit my name isn’t Davis.
You are William Henry Blore?
That’s right.
I will add something to that.
Not only are you here under a false name, Mr. Blore,
but in addition I’ve noticed this evening that
you’re a first- class liar.
You claim to have come from Natal, South Africa.
I know South Africa and Natal well, and I’m prepared to swear
that you’ve never set foot there in your life.
You gentlemen have got me wrong. I’m an ex – C.I.D. man.
Oh, a copper!
I’ve got my credentials and I can prove it.
I run a detective agency in Plymouth. I was put onto this job.
By whom?
Why, Mr. Owen. Sent a very nice money order for expenses,
and said I was to join the house party,
posing as a guest.
He also sent a list of all your names
and said I was to keep an eye on you all.
Any reason given?
BLORE. Said Mrs. Owen had got some valuable jewels.
Mrs. Owen, my foot! I don’t believe there’s any such person.
Your conclusions are, I think, justified.
Ulick Norman Owen, Una Nancy Owen.
Each time, that is to say. U.N. Owen. Or: Unknown.
But it’s fantastic! Mad!
Oh, yes, I’ve no doubt in my own mind
that we have been invited here by a madman –
probably a dangerous homicidal lunatic.
Oh, my gawd!
Whoever it is who has enticed us here,
that person has taken the trouble to find out a great deal about us.
A very great deal.
And out of his knowledge concerning us, he has made certain
definite accusations.
It’s all very well to make accusations.
A pack of damn lies! Slander!
It’s iniquitous! Wicked!
A lie – a wicked lie – we never did, neither of us –
Don’t know what the damned fool was getting at –
I wish to say this.
Our unknown friend accuses me of the murder
of one Edward Seton. I remember Seton perfectly well.
He came up before me for trial in June, 1930.
He was charged with the murder of an elderly woman.
He was very ably defended and made a good impression
on the jury in the witness box. Nevertheless, on the evidence
he was certainly guilty. I summed up accordingly
and the jury brought in a verdict of guilty.
In passing sentence of death,
I fully concurred with this verdict.
The appeal was lodged on the grounds of misdirection.
The appeal was dismissed and the man was duly executed.
I wish to say before you all that my conscience
is perfectly clear on the matter. I did my duty and nothing more.
I passed sentence on a rightly convicted murderer.
Did you know Seton at all? I mean,personally.
I knew nothing of Seton previous to the trial.
The old boy’s lying. I’ll swear he’s lying.
Fellow’s a madman. Absolute madman.
Got a bee in his bonnet. Got hold of the wrong end of the stick all round.
Best really to leave this sort of thing unanswered.
However, feel I ought to say – no truth –
no truth whatever in what he said about – er –
young Arthur Richmond.
Richmond was one of my officers.
I sent him on reconnaissance in 1917. He was killed.
Also like to say – I resent very much the slur on my wife.
Best woman in the world. Absolutely – Caesar’s wife.
I’ve just been thinking – John and Lucy Combes.
Must have been a couple of kids I ran over near Cambridge.
Beastly bad luck.
For them or for you?
Well, I was thinking – for me – but, of course, you’re right, sir.
It was damned bad luck for them too.
Of course, it was pure accident.
They rushed out of some cottage or other.
I had my license suspended for a year. Beastly nuisance.
This speeding’s all wrong – all wrong.
Young men like you are a danger to the community.
Well, I couldn’t help it. Just an accident.
Might I say a word, sir?
Go ahead, Rogers.
There was a mention, sir, of me and Mrs. Rogers,
and of Miss Jennifer Brady. There isn’t a word of truth in it.
We were with Miss Brady when she died.
She was always in poor health, sir,
always from the time we came to her. There was a storm, sir,
the night she died. The telephone was out of order.
We couldn’t get the doctor to her.
I went for him, sir, on foot. But he got there too late.
We’d done everything possible for her, sir.
Devoted to her, we were. Anyone will tell you the same.
There was never a word said against us. Never a word.
Came into a nice little something at her death,
I suppose. Didn’t you?
Miss Brady left us a legacy in
recognition of our faithful service.
And why not, I’d like to know?
What about yourself, Mr. Blore?
What about me?
Your name was on the list.
I know, I know. Lendor, you mean?
That was the London & Commercial Bank robbery.
I remember the name, though it didn’t come before me.
Lendor was convicted on your evidence.
You were the police officer in charge of the case.
I was, my Lud.
Lendor got penal servitude for life
and died in Dartmoor a year later. He was a delicate man.
He was a crook. It was him put the night watchman out.
The case was clear from the start.
You were complimented, I think, on your able handling of the case.
I got my promotion. I was only doing my duty.
Convenient word – duty.
What about you, Doctor?
I’m at a loss to understand the matter.
The name meant nothing to me – what was it? Close?
Close? I really don’t remember having a patient of that name –
or its being connected with a death in any way.
The thing’s a complete mystery to me.
Of course, it’s a long time ago.
It might possibly be one of my operation cases in hospital.
They come too late, so many of these people.
Then, when the patient dies, it’s always the surgeon’s fault.
And then it’s better to take up nerve cases
and give up surgery. Some, of course, give up drink.
I protest.
You’ve no right to insinuate such things.
I never touch alcohol.
My dear fellow, I never suggested you did.
Anyway, Mr. Unknown is the only one who knows all the facts.
Miss Claythorne?
I was nursery governess to Peter Hamilton.
We were in Cornwall for the summer.
He was forbidden to swim out far.
One day, when my attention was distracted, he started off –
as soon as I saw what happened I swam after him.
I couldn’t get there in time
Was there an inquest?
Yes, I was exonerated by the Coroner.
His mother didn’t blame me either.
Thank you. Miss Brent?
I have nothing to say.
Nothing?
Nothing.
You reserve your defense?
There is no question of defense.
I have always acted according to dictates of my conscience.
What a law-abiding lot we seem to be! Myself excepted –
We are waiting for your story, Captain Lombard.
I haven’t got a story.
What do you mean?
I’m sorry to disappoint all of you.
It’s just that I plead guilty. It’s perfectly true.
I left those natives alone in the bush.
Matter of self-preservation.
You abandoned your men?
Not quite the act of a proper gentleman, I’m afraid.
But after all, self-preservation’s a man’s first duty.
And natives don’t mind dying, you know. They
don’t feel about it as Europeans do –
Our inquiry rests there.
Now, Rogers, who else is there on this island besides ourselves
and you and your wife?
Nobody, sir. Nobody at all.
You’re sure of that?
Quite sure, sir.
Thank you. Don’t go, Rogers.
I am not yet clear as to the purpose of our unknown host
in getting us to assemble here.
But in my opinion he’s not sane in the accepted
sense of the word. He may be dangerous.
In my opinion, it would be well for us to leave this place
as soon as possible.
I suggest that we leave here tonight.
I beg your pardon, sir, but there’s no boat on the island.
No boat at all?
No, sir.
Why don’t you telephone to the mainland?
There’s no telephone.
Fred Narracott, he comes over every morning, sir.
He brings the milk and the bread and the post and the papers,
and takes the orders.
A bit unsporting, what?
Ought to ferret out the mystery before we go.
Whole thing’s like a detective story. Positively thrilling.
At my time of life, I have no desire for thrills.
The legal life’s narrowing.
I’m all for crime. Here’s to it.
//
My God, he’s dead!
Dead? D’you mean the fellow just choked and died?
You can call it choking if you like.
He died of asphyxiation, right enough.
Never knew a man could die like that – just of a choking fit.
In the middle of life we are in death.
A man doesn’t die of a mere choking fit, General MacKenzie.
Marston’s death isn’t what we call a natural death.
Was there something in the whiskey?
Yes. By the smell of it, cyanide. Probably potassium cyanide.
Acts pretty well instantaneously.
Then he must have put the stuff in the glass himself.
Suicide, eh? That’s a rum go.
You’d never think he’d commit suicide.
He was so alive. He was enjoying himself.
Oh! Look – here’s one of the little soldiers off the mantelpiece – broken.
